Title: Canton Ecosystem Overview
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mylkBGfuSnI
================================================================================

Right.

Okay.

So, thanks everyone uh for joining today and welcome back to the build on Canon hackathon.

Uh today's session is the Canon EOS ecosystem overview uh where we're going to have a broader look at where C canon sits in the market and the opportunities for you guys as builders.

So, just a quick reminder before we start, your final submission date um closes on Monday the 13th of July at 12:59 uh BST.

Okay?

And your project must be deployed live on the Canton DevNet to be order to to qualify.

And I'll give more info uh on that at the end of the um uh meeting today.

So uh keep your keep keep your questions coming in the chat u throughout and we'll be able we'll be happy to sort of go through them.

Uh and today speaker is Jacob Chambers and he's director of business development at uh Canton.

So over to you Jacob.

&gt;&gt; Yeah, thank you so much and and thank you all for joining today and and more importantly thank you for participating in this.

Um you know we uh we we've been very excited about the program we've been able to put together here.

um with uh with partnership with the Canton Foundation and with with Encode uh to to pull this off and so um you know this is this is critical work and very meaningful.

Um so just to to give you guys an overview of of where I sit in the organization um I lead our partnerships and infrastructure group um what what that means is you know we have uh and and I work for Digital Asset I should I should also say.

So, for those who aren't familiar, Digital Asset created the Canton network.

Um, I'll go into a little bit of that history there to provide some contextual uh basis for um for how I think about the ecosystem.

Um, but Digital Asset created the Canton network.

Um, you know, we're we're a 10-year-old organization, over 10 year olds organization this point.

Um, and we we provide different primitives and technological primitives u to to help organizations who are building on on the network.

Um we also are very actively involved in uh the go to market and growth of the ecosystem as well.

Um but but also at the same time a very much a for-profit company um and just one member of of the broader canton network.

Um so within digital asset I lead our partnerships group um which works with anything from large uh advisory and consulting firms to um uh development shops to cloud providers and hyperscalers um to to help grow and advocate for the the ecosystem.

Um, also on the kind of Canton network mainet side, oversee our infrastructure, our stable coins and crypto teams.

And so infrastructure is really anything that underpins the ecosystem, all of our wallet custody, uh, all of your node operations, um, any of the bridges and interop, anybody doing anything with data, AML, KYC, risk intelligence, um, oracles, things like that.

Um and then on the stable coins and crypto side um you know all all issuers stable coin orchestration any piece of stable coin infra uh as well as um the uh uh our DeFi landscape within within crypto.

Uh and so through that overseeing those teams we kind of um I work with them to go and and put you really a three-phased approach towards our ecosystem engagement.

So we go out and we help recruit organizations who we think would be valuable to the Canton ecosystem um and and help them um you make a decision to deploy technology services etc within within Canton.

Um and then we go through a very deep enablement motion of making sure those organizations are enabled as they interact uh within Canton um and can can do whatever it is they do as a business right capably within within Canton.

Um and then kind of in the third phase once once all the enablement's done we we do joint go to market and um and joint scaling of of their mo of their activity um of of additional BD work in partnership together um etc.

And so have had the uh the chance to work with you know anybody from um you know kind of your your largest global exchanges your largest centralized exchanges your largest bridge operators um all the way down to you know one two person uh organizations who are who are just starting up and seeking their first seed round of capital.

So a very broad scope of of exposure there.

Um and uh and and really um interesting insights across the board.

Um I do have to apologize.

Uh we as digital asset right now are in the middle of very critical um testing cycles um with a a notable global uh partner um which you'll be seeing press press releases about in in the in the coming weeks.

Um, due to that I'm I'm having certain infosc controls on what I'm able to share uh and and what access I'm able to get to my computer.

And so I I had a nice deck uh with an ecosystem overview built out.

I'm trying to work with our internal security teams to see if they can uh open the door to to allow me to share here.

Um but unfortunately my browser permissions are are locked.

So I'll talk through um again some of the origins of digital asset the uh the motivations for architecting canon the way that we did.

Um I'll I'll segue that into an overview of just Canton network in the early innings and where we find ourselves in the evolution of the ecosystem.

Uh we'll give some information on some of the thematic opportunities we see within the network.

Uh and then um and then finally go into into areas that that should be right for development and opportunity for um for building within Canton.

Uh if at any point throughout this I get a ping from from our infosc teams that I'm able to uh to share and and um pull up the slide deck, you know, I'll I'll save you guys from having to look at look at my face talking the entire time.

So um yeah, thanks.

With that, let me go in and and kind of start from the top.

So So basically when when I go and talk with ecosystem participants and and share Canton, um you know, really I I I anchor on a couple of things that we do very differently um than than other ecosystems.

And so, uh, the the first and foremost message that most participants take away, um, from working with us is is frankly the fact that that we have privacy, um, as as an L1, you know, and, uh, we're pretty, um, open about saying that we, you know, we're the only network that that has privacy.

Um, there are a lot of other blockchains that, um, uh, position their technology as having some form of privacy.

Uh, but you can get into semantics.

A lot of us would believe that you know there's there's a form of anonymity there which isn't necessarily true privacy and and the way we define privacy is uh individual actors on network have control over their own data um and and the permissions of their data and who's allowed to see what in in certain uh transactional environments.

And so that approach to privacy selective disclosure is is how that's categorized.

role-based permissioning in some contexts.

Um really provides a different element of privacy uh that resonates with definitely an institutional audience but also uh progressively more and more with with kind of the um next wave of of crypto and DeFi that we see popping up where um you can provide very interesting tools and capabilities if you have control over privacy that way.

So rewinding back to the origins of digital asset, digital asset was started by Yuval Ruse and um and Eric Sarini and Shawer.

Uh Eric and Uval were working within DRW at the time um which is a large uh market maker um and and prop trading firm.

Um uh they started Cumberland and and and and were very early in DRW ventures and then partnered with Shawer who who had been working on um security and privacy in based out of Israel.

the the thesis here was to take all the value of blockchain um you know the very they realized very early on that obviously blockchain itself early bit Bitcoin um early Ethereum had the opportunity to really change how finance flowed um but you you couldn't do that on the public ledger and so find a way to utilize this technology and uh constructed in a way that made sense for firms that wanted to do institutional regulated type workflows um but but also wanted to control and sovereignty of their data.

So set out uh to to effectively establish that process.

Um one of the core developments in uh architecting the stack early on was the uh creation of DAML um who you may be very well familiar with at this point but is our proprietary smart contract language um that that allows to code contracts uh with the privacy permissions on Canton.

um that combined with the underlying blockchain of of what is now the the Canton blockchain um [clears throat] the we were able to uh basically position blockchain technology in an institutional way.

So through the first 10 years of the network um we took to market this technology um in in a way that uh was was really oriented towards large institutions and so worked with global banks like Goldman Sachs, HSBC um BNP to build tokenization platforms uh worked with uh large global banks to manage uh large books of broadly syndicated loans.

Um I think many of you may have seen that we worked with with the financial technology firm Broadidge to uh build a repo application that um today does about seven half trillion dollars of notional volume in in repo trading per month um five of the largest oil and gas producers to settle physical natural gas trades um amongst one another uh utilizing blockchain ledger.

And so all of those different types of institutional activities uh were um were were were are enabled uh via the canton blockchain demo smart contracts.

Um and the go to market was very much focused around a kind of oneoff you know enterprise DT uh type engagement.

So we'd work with these institutions to execute their specific use case um utilizing the technology.

But there there really wasn't a uh broader environment for for these organizations to um to interact with and and the demand from the clients had had been we would like for uh to to increase composability.

All along that was a capability via the Kto blockchain as as many of you guys know now and and we see in the modern can network as it is today.

Um but but that really wasn't the appetite of institutions early on and it became a demand over time.

you know, okay, we have this technology here, we have this these these applications that have been developed.

How do we segue that into um you know, a composable environment that looks more like what public blockchains looked like?

Um, you know, as some of an anecdote there, I think most of us who are in the space and you know, the early 2020s, right?

Um, realize that there was a there was a kind of a a talking point that permeated throughout the industry is like, oh, you know, uh, you either are a private blockchain or you're a public blockchain.

there was really no concept of of kind of a public blockchain ecosystem with privacy.

Um and so that was um that was kind of the the demand of our client base and really kind of where we always oriented or intended for the network to be to be oriented towards and end up as.

Uh so as as the climate began to allow for that, institutions became more comfortable with public blockchain that demand became louder amongst our existing client base.

um you know it it the opportunity became ripe for uh for launching what what had always kind of been the plan in in the Canton network mainet.

And so just over two years ago, I think it was two years ago last week or maybe a couple of weeks ago um we we took the Canten network mainet live uh with with an early cohort of launch partners um and uh and and and now have since you know spent the past two years scaling that up.

And so the difference here is uh from from an architectural standpoint of what the K10 network mainet is versus what you know we had built as digital asset and and previously um our previous clients was within all of these different applications uh for there's there's always been a a synchronizer that synchronizes the private transactions amongst different parties.

With the launch of the Canton network we we launched what is referred to as the global synchronizer.

So that's effectively the the synchronizer that sits at the middle is somewhat of a post office we like to say of private transactions across the ecosystem um that that helps order and and route uh the the private transactions that are validated by individual validators.

So we launched the global synchronizer that synchronizer is operated by the super validators on network.

uh it is uh also by by way of launch at at time of launch was gifted um in governance to uh at the time that the Linux foundation.

So Linux foundation had set up a separate program underneath uh their open source uh governance model um around the Canton network um that originally was named the Global Synchronizer Foundation.

It has since been renamed to the Canten Foundation and so Canton Foundation oversees the governance.

The global synchronizer is is is operated by the collective superv validators.

Um and digital asset is is is one of those super validators.

We sit um on certain governance committee boards within the foundation.

Um but you have many many very prominent ecosystem actors that fill both the infrastructure side of of responsibility of of the global synchronizer and running SV nodes as well as the governance um within committees like tokconomics committee, tech and ops committee um and subcommittees like you know collateral subcommittee or um marketing subcommittee things things like that.

Um at the same time of launching the global synchronizer uh you all are probably very well aware that we launched Cantencoin as um an intentionally public token uh that is validated by the super validators in the global synchronizer.

Um Cantencoin was a very fair launch.

It was um it it uh everybody who has who has earned cantoncoin there's a premine preuance.

was launched on day one genesis block of the network.

Anybody who's earned Cantencoin has done it by providing some sort of value to the ecosystem.

So either running some sort of infrastructure um participating users through their validator nodes also receive Cantoncoin distributions um and and uniquely one of our other very uh unique differentiators as a network is that we also reward the applications, right?

Um, and so if you have an application that brings value to the ecosystem, we want to make sure that you are rewarded in token emissions, um, not just having those emissions go to to the infrastructure and the validator layer, um, like like they are in other ecosystems.

Um, and and so that's, uh, we like to kind of aligned incentives, right?

We we want the organizations that are providing utility to to the ecosystem to receive tokens.

Um those three tokens uh streams are again began on day one of Canton network.

They're on a 10-year fixed minting curve.

Uh where each one has a set distributed amount per year.

Um once we hit the end of that 10-year curve, uh we will it goes into a long tail of emissions.

um over time.

Um across all three of those streams, the application rewards uh receive the vast majority of uh applications receive the vast majority of rewards over time.

Um and so it's it's obviously a very lucrative opportunity for for organizations to go in and um and and earn those tokens through that stream.

Um the last point on the token that I'll make um and I think is is an interesting one too is that through that set fixed 10-year cycle again you have the the set amount of tokens that are minted on every 10-minute block basis.

Um but all of the the fees that are generated on network you know about a dollar in fees um [snorts] so every transaction costs somewhere around generally a dollar.

it's it's based in megabyte size, but within that fee structure uh the the fees are paid in Canton Coin and they're they're burned off network.

And so um at some point and I think most people track this if you follow crypto Twitter or follow Kanto network um online are tracking towards what we refer to as kind of the the burnment equilibrium to where burn of the tokens through the fee missions uh at at some point will allow or effectively potentially outpace the distribution mechanism um that is that is fixed today.

And so that is uh you know assuming that that we reach that that point where the the token then becomes deflationary and and there's there potentially if the market cap stays equal some some upward price pressure there.

So a very interesting tokconomic structure um particularly in comparison to to anything that um you most most other uh networks have put out in in the market today.

Um on the the general go to market of of the ecosystem.

Yeah, I think we we I I kind of look at this in in phases.

Um since since we've taken the Canton network mainet live um over over the past two years, you know, the way that we rolled out the ecosystem was really finding our your core partners to kind of establish, you know, minimum viable network in the first six months of of the of the network.

So if we cut back to the second half of 2024, um it was really spent around finding those those kind of key early scaling partners to to provide growth to network.

The early partners to run other super validator nodes.

Uh the early partners to provide um validator node operations and um and white label validator nodes for customers.

Uh the early partners to provide wallet and custody services.

Uh I believe there's there was a a single day where I think DFNS and Copper both went live uh the same day and there's a little bit of a debate as to who was the first to actually support as as a wallet custo provider on network.

Right?

So those are two of the early partners that we had jump in um kind of right off the bat to help us scale out the ecosystem.

Um early KYC providers early early um uh data visualization things like that.

So the first six months were spent kind of building that that core base of the network that we could then go scale this this ecosystem on top of.

Um from there and throughout 2025 the next year I say was was a very rapid expansion phase.

um you know bringing in more use case driven partnerships.

Um you bringing in more of the the traditional or institutions that um you found themselves in the middle of a kind of a macropolitical climate last year that allowed for institutions to actually take the step into into public blockchain ecosystems um and and expanding out the utility u of uh of the ecosystem by way of this this rapid expansion.

So I think beginning of last year and in in you know January February time we had somewhere between 30 and and 45 validator nodes on the Canton network mainet um operating by the end of 2025 um you know we we had eclipsed I think 950,000 nodes um and so a pretty rapid expansionary phase across all types of customers um uh operators uh infrastructure providers etc.

um the the core focus and market opportunity that that Canton had really set out to tackle given the unique components that we have in terms of privacy um and uh and and in the control of the smart contracts um within Canton had been around kind of a couple of broad categories, right?

And so um we we found ourselves kind of thinking about the the evolution of of the ecosystem from go to market lens through kind of an assetbased perspective, right?

Um you know we've we've focused on bringing very high quality collateral assets into Canton.

Um this is uh evidenced in in the or or represented really in the form primarily of short-term government bonds um and in short-term government debt.

Uh other pieces of highquality collateral um are also of high interest whether that's you know potentially you know wrapped bitcoin from other ecosystems or um or or potentially a commodity like gold um or or some sort of money market fund or something of that effect, right?

Um the highquality collateral assets is something that uh we've we've focused on making sure we have sufficient liquidity of and work with uh the right issuers to bring into the ecosystem.

Um, this right now is is really kind of manifested through our work with central securities deposiitories throughout the globe like the DTCC, uh, Eurocar, Euronext, uh, Clear Stream, of course, uh, the JSCC in Japan to to help bring, um, you know, at at the source of these assets, um, the the the the issuance of them on chain.

Another angle of kind of the assetbased uh approach that we've taken is really around um cash cash equivalent.

So stable coins um both you know USD genius compliant USD non-genius compliant USD um non USD stable coins um things of that sort uh you know there's been a large emphasis now to bring sufficient liquidity in across the whole stable coin landscape.

Uh I think you guys may have seen we we we are pretty active in the tokenized deposit realm as well working with a lot of the the global banks um to to issue their tokenized deposit strategies on Canton.

And so really making sure we have sufficient cash options as well um within within the network.

Uh and then and then the third kind of leg of that stool, if you will, um that that helps us kind of create a very robust virtual ecosystem that we focused on is um is is bringing on high quality applications that can mobilize those two sorts of asset classes.

Um and so within [snorts] the collateral side of things um and and and short-term government debt, you know, you see a lot of use cases centered around capital markets.

So things like repo trading is something that's very popular.

Um I'm happy to do do Q&amp;A on um you know how uh how how we see re repo uh opportunities within the ecosystem.

Um also around lending uh around margin management at exchanges um things like that the collateral mobility is uh is is is a huge market opportunity.

To put some context around that I think there's 200 trillion some odd dollars of eligible collateral currently locked up.

And the reason it's locked up is because it's underpinning very inefficient systems, long settlement delay cycles, um mismatch systems that require a lot of reconciliation across various data constructs, things like that.

And so if you can bring that onchain, increase efficiency, reduce risk around a lot of these different systems, um you you can you can free up that trap collateral and and organizations can mobilize it more and have more working capital to go to go earn money.

And so that's been a very very core focus and we we've been uh again you know kind of strategically working with a lot of global institutions and organizations to make sure that we can we can uh uh unlock that trap collateral and utilize these high quality collateral assets to uh to mobilize within the ecosystem.

Uh of course there's cash components of that as well.

Most of all of these different collateral flows have have some sort of cash element to them too.

Um and but we we see additional use cases with with tokenized cash.

And so I think most people would akin a lot of the success of uh of of crypto, a lot of the growth of crypto over the past 18 months to uh really stable coins finding product market fit um over the past two years.

I I think I was on a panel um uh in in New York back in January and the question was asked you know why why have we seen this this institutional wave of adoption and I think most everybody's answer on the entire panel was well one we have regulatory clarity in a way which is which helps a lot too I think the broader market realizes that you know stable coins are kind of a no-brainer right um you know they uh the the again the very inefficient systems that we have across uh across the um the world through through payment cycles and markets etc.

um can can really be optimized by by ways of tokenized cash.

And so we're working uh with various providers to do things like you know B2B payments crossber uh payroll uh treasury management use cases you being able to go in and out of yield bearing assets into into dollar based tokenized assets uh for for large organizations or or even smaller organizations that want to optimize their uh their internal balance sheets and and efficiencies.

Um and and then down into even retail use cases for you maybe your retail user that doesn't necessarily want to spend on a public chain would rather spend you know swipe a card backed by stable coins but actually has some privacy behind it.

And so we have this the whole spectrum of of of payments kind of focused with with the tokenized cash element too.

Uh and then the last bit of the ecosystem that I'll that I'll speak towards and maybe kind of uh uh take a step back and open up for and speak to where opportunities for developers might be is within all of these.

So we've talked about a lot about you know kind of general collateral capital markets type use cases you know uh high quality liquid assets um uh that that can help enable these flows.

the payment side of things um both [snorts] both businessto business retail payments um that sort there's there's been a very very cool ecosystem of native DeFi that's popped up within Canton um really really kind of under its its own accord um and I think we've seen a lot of very um impressive and and uh motivated you know entrepreneurs come in and and develop things like you know dexes privacy or or borrow lend and with privacy but also with you know the ability to incorporate some institutional assets into those lending protocols.

Um you know we have I've seen recently in the past like week or two um you know per stack is live onchain and we have we have prediction markets within canton as well um and so a very very robust um vault vault curators very robust defi uh ecosystem has has sprung up under our feet um which is which has been very fun to watch for you know kind of an organization at digital asset who had been so institutionally focused um in in kind of the trad world for the past 10 years and so uh the way that We like to work with with a lot of these providers as well is to to see okay who can we uh uh work with to get exposure to um you know kind of institutional grade assets or institutional grade use cases and provide a lot of these very interesting and compelling services that um that that you know crypto has created uh into into an ecosystem that has asset base like that that has kind of a network that that Canton has.

And so we're really trying to merge both sides of of kind of the the the the DeFi crypto native world with with Tradfi as we meet in the middle here.

Um and and we think that you know it's it's even it's pretty telling right now that we are one of the core areas um within the industry that is that is providing that that convergence.

So I think that's kind of state of the ecosystem.

Um broad categories on where we see opportunity.

I I think that there is a there's some thematic categories that I think uh people can build towards and opportunities for builders uh within the ecosystem both if you're starting your own organization or you know kind of going through um v various accelerator programs.

I think the enablement of the convergence of of these sorts of uh of these sorts of types of companies, right?

So the ability for institutions to be able to um have reliable data streams and data access to various DeFi components.

Um the ability for the infrastructure layer to support uh what um the the the marriage of of these two of these two types of of organizations, right?

whether that's through um you know shared node infrastructure or um uh uh you know the uh uh common validation right or decentralized validation across nodes on canton things like that just that you know kind of capitalizing on providing infrastructure services data at that wedge um that appeal to both institutional and in a crypton native audience I think is is something that's that's interesting and an area to focus on um I think there's a whole wealth of opportunity to provide payment services again um kind of very similar to what's been done in in in other more public ecosystems, blockchain ecosystems, but on Canton with privacy uh is something that I think is also ripe for for development.

Um, I think from uh from kind of a an approach standpoint, I think there's very interesting opportunities for builders to to work with large institutions, large organizations who have very interested and compelling digital asset teams um to to help co-develop.

Um you know those are those are certain uh things that you know we see a lot of Q&amp;A come through from large institutions on you know how can we work with with native builders um to best understand how to optimize you know our our systems and programs and and and you know increase our education uh around um you know uh whether it's smart contract language or bits of infrastructure or or whatever else uh to to go and execute the the different initiatives and and programs they have internally.

Uh those are just a few.

I I think there's there's a much broader list here of where opportunity lies.

Uh but those are top of mind, of course, given where we sit.

Uh and and some of the things that we've seen come across our plate.

Um with that, I could probably take a pause and see if there's any questions.

I I see a one pop up on Q&amp;A here.

So, what is your advice for foreign founders that want to build a startup on Canton in the States?

&gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; So would the would the oh I guess I need to click answer here.

Um would the startup be based in the states or would you just be soliciting to end customers in the states?

Um I I I'm not sure if you can provide direct feedback in the chat stream here but I'm happy to to kind of touch on both.

So I mean from from basing the startup in the states I I think that that you know you'd have to kind of speak to a lawyer.

I'm wearing a hoodie at a desk.

I'm not wearing a tie.

So, there's probably somebody that can better answer that question as to how to like actually structure it.

Um, in terms of providing a startup and soliciting to to organizations in the states, I think one of the things that we're happy to do depending on whatever the startup is.

Um, is we're happy to provide opinions on again where we see market opportunity with our existing ecosystem partners and participants.

uh provide you know kind of a a POV as to how we can connect whatever service or or application it is that you're looking to to build as a founder um into those uh into those those those relationships and those those channels uh and and helps uh engage in joint go to market together um you know when when the time is right um based off of whatever you're building and so a lot of ways I can probably tackle that question um but uh but in in principle I think the core of it is, you know, we're we're happy to help.

Um, I think that there is a there's an opportunity for for off for for non- US founders to provide services.

We we see that happen ac all the time across the ecosystem.

It just kind of depends on what service you're providing, who your target customer is, um, and and what the engagement model is between you as a founder and and your end customer.

Uh, I think that was the only question that I've seen in the chat.

I'm not sure if there's anything else that uh that that is come up elsewhere or I'm not sure if the ENCO team has filled any directly.

U maybe maybe I'm not looking at the right uh the right channel here, but um happy to take any other questions.

Okay.

I don't see any kind of third.

Dwight Shrew, do you have uh do you have anything on your end?

&gt;&gt; Um no, I think actually just one more uh came on the chat just now.

So why &gt;&gt; minting plan is setting for 10 years?

Would that timeline change due to all the situation happened?

&gt;&gt; No.

So the the minting plan for the token is is set.

Um now I'll say that Canton is decently governed, right?

Um you know we have uh we have a tokconomics committee that votes on on various um you know elements of uh of of of the network.

Um, I to be quite honest, I would have to go in and read the bylaws to see if if the minting schedule would ever be ch or could ever be changed.

I I don't nobody's ever brought that up before in the past.

I don't believe that it's of anybody's interest to.

I think we we all understand the tokens emissions um, you know, are are kind of set in a way that I think everybody agrees are are are pretty um, uh, pretty appropriate.

And so from a governance standpoint, um, it surely wouldn't be at our soul discretion to change them.

Um but the the 10-year minting curve and you know having three different set token uh allocation tranches between the SV tokens, the app reward tokens and the validator tokens um is is something that um that that at this point I said and you know everybody is is kind of building around today and I'm not sure if I could even speculate on whatever change that but I in my personal opinion me not speaking as a representative digital asset I I ever foresee that changing.

Um &gt;&gt; I think we have another question in the chat as well.

Uh do you see solutions on canon for commercial banking uh in high demand?

Happy to speak further after this call.

&gt;&gt; Yeah, completely.

Um I think so.

So commercial banking uh I mean again if we talked about v various elements of banking both you know kind of optimizing for the deposit base um within bankings the lending activities uh of banks to their customers u cash management kind of standard banking activities I think all of those across the board um have uh have have relevant footholds within our network um with use cases that we see popping up within participants that are asking for different um for different uh services and offerings and and partners like this.

And so, yeah, absolutely.

I think um I think there's certainly a demand.

And if you look at the longtail opportunity of of how you're seeing some of the banks approach um you know, various DeFi concepts too and weaving those into um into what they're they're doing as as as organizations.

Um I think you could find some really cool interesting categories, right?

So, I know this isn't necessarily on the commercial banking side, but there could be some elements of like cash management, but like you saw JP Morgan, I think, uh, you know, launched a vault um, just this past couple weeks in the past two weeks or so.

Um, you know, those those sorts of kind of cash management, yield bearing mechanisms that can be applied to the way the the commercial banks interact with um, with with their customers, with their clients.

Um, you there's a lot of different opportunities for them to to provide differentiated services and very interesting angles of support.

All right.

Uh, from Keith, which financial institutions are seeing the most value from Canton today?

Um, there there's a couple different ways to approach that.

I could go use case uh, but I could also say I think it's the ones that have have really committed to to to to tinkering with the service, right?

um as a financial institution uh there is as you can imagine for most of these large organizations uh there there's a lot of decision-m that needs to go um go into deciding whether or not to to participate uh and you know there's this whole legacy kind of wave of of of of crypto adoption where you know if you kind of issue a PR press release and and maybe go through a couple pilots um you know that was that was sufficient in the past but over the past you know two or three years we're now seeing, you know, organizations actually like really dig in and and take very cool, interesting products to market.

And and so from from an approach standpoint, the ones that are seeing the most value are the ones that are um that that are that are most adept to um to to adopting technology that have, you know, business buyin as well as, you know, the kind of tech and innovation buyin within their organizations.

Um, as far as which types of organizations those are, uh, I think you're seeing a lot of, um, a lot of interest from from various exchanges, um, to to, you know, optimize the the assets that they can that they can trade and, um, and offer their clients.

Um, so, you know, there's a lot of talk around tokenized equities and and how those um, can can play into what sort of assets are offered to to client bases.

um underneath the hood, the the management of collateral is is a very very uh compelling value prop to to a lot of organizations and and and clients of certain exchanges.

Um the banks of course uh I think most people are tracking um you know what the largest banks are doing with their with their tokenized cash strategies, their their tokenized deposit strategies, stable coin strategies.

Um at this point I think every financial institution has some sort of of cash strategy.

Um and so so those are definitely very prevalent.

Um yeah.

Yeah.

Those are all right.

Um I think that was it on the ones that have come through the chat.

I'm happy to uh to answer any as well offline.

I'll uh I'll go ahead and put I maybe at risk to myself.

I'll put my Telegram handle in here if anybody um has any questions.

Feel free to hit me up on Telegram at any point.

Um, you know, we have uh we have a very capable team at digital asset that's happy to help uh with with anything that you guys may be looking to to do on network.

Uh, okay.

Do you think if canon network is going to be successful in the future?

The question is, do you think if Canton network is going to be successful in the future, it will or the goal of it is to replace your traditional banking services?

&gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Uh so Canton network by us is Canton as as an L1 and you know again speaking of on behalf of digital asset and then our role within Canton but I think just given my my interactions with the rest of the Canton ecosystem um you know it's an L1 it's it's it's a piece of infrastructure we we as digital asset do not have intentions of replacing traditional banking services.

Um I I feel pretty confident in saying the network itself doesn't either.

Uh I think that there are interesting organizations um that are developing on the network um that are [snorts] providing some very cool services you know neo bankanking type services are are there's some really cool neo banks that have popped up um on on canon and they're they're doing very very interesting things from payments to yield to the deposits and savings to collecting payroll you know um and so will that replace it no uh I think there's also very well traditional banking traditional banks that are that are doing very very interesting things on network um through their own services through lending through uh through through providing access to to crypto assets and things like that.

And so I think both um are are really uh are working um you know to to kind of tackle this this the the own strategies within within crypto um and in their own way.

Uh now we as a network and and we or as as digital asset and then Canton as a network I don't believe have any intentions of of uh purposely replacing that.

We we hope to support both sides and and whatever it is they look to do, you know, given the the infrastructure that we have um you know within uh within our own control.

All right.

Thank you for the question.

Do you have anything else to add?

Um, Jacob, &gt;&gt; I I don't think so.

I mean I I think that um well yeah the I'll tie off by saying that you know we one of the things that that we're keenly focused on as digital asset and and and helping to to grow the ecosystem um is enabling you know the the next wave of not only just Canton itself but but the industry right um we think we again we have some very unique properties that we can provide as as a company and that Canton can provide as as an L1 um but you know the the the coolest things that pop up um are within any sort of technological shift are always the ones that are developed at the ground level.

Um and by people kickstarting their their entrepreneurship journey or leaving legacy jobs to to go and start something off.

So um we place a high priority on uh on on all the new and interesting ideas and and very happy to see what uh what comes out of this program.

Um again, yeah, I put my telegram in here.

very happy to be accessible and help uh help provide as much direction as we possibly can.

Um you know this is uh having things like this happen and programs like this take place is something that you know three four five years ago when when we were in in the slog of of institutional crypto winter just wasn't wasn't even on the radar.

And now to be able to uh to work with organizations across the globe to to deploy on canon and provide you know meaningful services that um that can help accelerate this ecosystem is is is fantastic.

So um very [clears throat] much appreciate the opportunity um very bullish on everything you guys are doing uh within uh within this cohort and and excited to see what comes out of it.

&gt;&gt; Very good.

Lovely.

Well, uh, thank you very much, Jacob, for uh, your side, for your time and, uh, really valuable overview of the, uh, content, uh, ecosystem as well.

Now, just a key reminders, um, as we're heading to the final stretch, right?

So, the final submission closes on Monday, the 13th of July at midnight.

Okay?

Uh, this means that if it's midnight anywhere in the world, submission will um, still be open.

Um, look at your time zone and make sure that you don't miss this submission deadline.

Please, please, please.

Uh, there are no extensions.

Uh, so get in there before the buzz up.

Okay.

Uh, your project must be deployed on the content devet as well uh, in order to be charged.

uh local sandbox or a local net is not enough and you will need a real demo contract uh running live on DevNet if it only runs on local host.

It is not finished yet.

So make sure it's on DevNet, please.

If you guys are using C port, it is great for prototyping fast, but don't stop there.

You must actually deploy to the DevNet validator and prove your contracts run on Ledger.

Uh C port mockup on its own won't count as a deploy submission.

If you need help with deploying um just rewatch the content tech deep dive in the finished event section of the program page.

It it walks through uh basically the full build plus devet uh deploy.

uh in today's session ruland that you uh in a little bit.

So if you're stuck on anything like out uh dar upload valid uh validator config uh then drop it in the content channel uh mentors and the team are there to unblock you.

So ask early, don't sit on the problem.

And just to remind you guys again, so final submission Monday the 13th.

Then there will be a period of judging.

We'll announce some finalists depend on how good or how uh many many subscription uh submissions will get.

This number will vary.

Okay.

Finalists will be announced and have time to prepare a presentation as well.

Then we'll have a finale uh which will be a demo day uh where uh will happen on Tuesday the 28th of July.

But that date may change depending on the judging timeline as well.

So keep an eye on the discord for updates.

And I think that's all from me.

So very nice.

Thank you very much um uh Jacob as well.

So for you everyone that participated on on this event today uh now that you've put in all the work um now it's time for you to get it live on the devet and finish it strong.

Okay keep an eye on the discord and the platform pages as well.

Uh so yeah thanks Jacob for the workshop and good luck with your builds &gt;&gt; Thanks again guys.