Title: Canton Tech Deep Dive
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1B_ybMiDcKY
================================================================================

Thanks everyone for joining.

I think we can start now.

Welcome to build on Canton Hackathon.

For you that don't know, we launched on Monday and today is the first deeper technical session for builders.

Just a quick reminder, your next key date is the project creation which needs to be done by Sunday 21st of June.

Okay?

After that, we have the Canton ecosystem overview on Monday at 2:00 p.m.

So, join us again for that.

And please keep checking the Discord and the platform page for updates and drop the question there.

The Canton or ask for me code team will be around that to help.

Okay?

So, today as a speaker we have Jatin who is the developer relations manager at the Canton Foundation.

And yeah, he will be going a little bit deeper into the Canton stock, the architecture, and the practical pieces that should help with the project building as well.

So, without further ado, I will pass over to Jatin and yeah, here we go.

&gt;&gt; Sounds good.

Sounds good.

Hey everybody, so good to be in the workshop and and I know that we have just getting started to build and only like a few days back only we had our first launch event.

But, this is just me giving you a quick TLDR overview of the entire like Canton network, Daml, how it looks and likes, a workshop on how can you use C-Port which will be the tool that I would generally want all of you to use to deploy, to write your first Daml smart contract, deploy on the validator that you would want to be.

But, yeah, let's let's get started, I guess.

I'm just going to share my screen and Dwight, let me know once my screen is sharing successfully.

&gt;&gt; Can you see my screen?

&gt;&gt; Yes, we can see your screen.

That's all good.

&gt;&gt; Okay, that's that's a good news then.

So, okay, let's see.

I think everything works.

Good to know.

So, hey everybody.

I am going to be first using the slides to explain you some of the most foundational and basic concepts out there about Canton network or DLT itself.

And after that, we can move on to actually write and after that, how to deploy using Cport.

So, let's move ahead.

So, as you would see, Canton network itself is a distinctionally very different blockchain than you would compare to any other else like So, for us, the whole architecture looks very very very different when you compare to somebody else out there in the blockchain space.

So, instead of a single global ledger, what we have is a global synchronizer that connects every single validator in the ecosystem.

Every validator runs its own version of a subnetwork like Canton Canton network.

You could say a sub Canton network in it.

They're all isolated, privacy first, you know, ecosystems within the Canton network ecosystem.

That's why we say we are Canton networks is a network of networks.

So, there are so many validators running a version of the network, a slice of the overall ledger, but at the same time to provide them the atomicity across themselves, we have a global synchronizer.

The global synchronizer sees absolutely nothing.

It gets encrypted, fully cryptographically encrypted messages.

All it does is sequencing, ordering, and batching, and overall BFT-based mechanism to make sure that there is atomicity natively across the validators.

So, for example, if someday bank A wants to work work with bank B, who's all the way at Korea or Japan, and bank A is in US, they can work easily with each other on Canton Network without any issue, thanks to the global synchronizer.

So, the architecture is very different than what you would look if you compare to other blockchains out there.

We have a distinct comparison with them, where we have a validator-based ecosystem, where only the parties in each single smart contract sees exactly your data, apart from the parties not in your smart contract does not see your data.

It's a part of our sub-transaction privacy smart contract mechanism, where Canton Network is the only blockchain to provide native privacy on the smart contract level, compared to the other blockchains out there.

Now, let's talk about DAML.

So, we talked about a general overview of the Canton Network, and I feel that would be good.

So, DAML is very essential different if you compare it with anything else.

It has multiple components.

It is It does not feel or look like your classic Solidity or Rust, where you write like loops and functions and classes and assets.

It is very different.

It is a very access-based smart contract language.

In DAML, you will see something called as template.

Template is like this.

It's only a small part of the overall network.

Template is just like a declared function as you would in a Solidity contract.

Then you have multiple accesses.

So, if you want somebody to only see your data or see the changes in your smart contract state, but do not alter it or write it or change it, you put them as observers.

Then you have a signatory.

Signatory is the one who is the true owner who signs everything.

Every single transaction has to be signed by the signatory in any case scenario.

Then on Canton Network, what we have is party.

So, instead of addresses on Ethereum like ecosystem, we have parties.

So, for when you get a new wallet on Canton Network, you get a party ID, not an address.

Party is your identification on the ledger.

Then we have choice.

Choice is like defining an action, an executable function in your smart contract.

For example, you defined a token, let's say USDC, but what is the function of USDC?

Function is to go from one person to another person.

The transfer of the coin is the function.

You would define it under a choice.

So, this is a basic infrastructure like overview in terms of like what are the major concepts in the smart contract.

But let me show you a real breakdown.

So, before we go to write something actual, I'll show you what it means to have a smart contract in the first place.

So, first, yeah, you would have like an overview model declaration, like module token where it's like when you declare a module in the first place.

Then you have an example of a controller, right?

Um since I cannot draw in this screen for some random reason, I'm just going to show you like this.

So, this here is an entire template.

Template is just definition of something, right?

A template starts with defining a new token.

So, template of a token with owner is a party.

So, the owner of a template, sorry, our owner of a token has to be a person, right?

So, if I created Jatin USDC or Jatin USDC Jatin as a new token, then I am the owner who is a party.

So, whenever you define an individual in your smart contract, it is go it does go by party.

Where here is you define the access, how much access does this person in has.

If the person is owner, we want to give them all the access in the world.

So, where signatory is the owner.

So, as we have seen before, signatory is the one who has authority to do everything.

So, owner is a signatory, right?

It tracks.

Then, we made a token of USDC Jatin.

But, I want the token to have an have a function from from like transferring one person to another to another.

That's what a token does.

So, we declare a choice called as transfer.

Then, you show the contract ID.

Contract ID is just name of your template, okay?

With you declare a new owner.

So, if I am sending to somebody else, who is that person?

So, you are declaring that person inside transfer because transfer is the one which will enable to introduce this new party.

So, inside the choice, you have a new person which is getting introduced as the new owner who is getting my token.

For example, Jatin is sending USDC Jatin to Dwight.

So, Dwight is the new owner who has a party.

That's how we declare it.

Controller is the owner.

Now, a controller inside a choice is is simply an access what other person exercise.

So, whoever you want this choice to be used by, that person is the controller.

So, if somebody else wants to request money from me, they're exercising this choice, this transfer request, they're requesting the transfer themselves.

So, they are the controller of the choice, and they just basically becomes a new owner when I transfer the token to them, they become the owner.

So, when you say do, do means you are basically just creating a new contract and archiving the old one.

That means that this whole thing is now going to be done at all complete.

Now, you said create this with owner equal to new owner.

So, do create this with owner equal to new owner means now, do this whole thing, convert the new owner into an owner, and start it all.

So, now the new owner holds the token, so it becomes the owner.

That means now it has the signatory access to give to somebody else.

So, this is how a breakdown of a normal DAML template looks like.

Now, let just say we look at a real example of a multi-party workflow.

You would ask me, "How do we define a template in the huge smart contract or DAML contract about specifically transfer or trade of a certain asset?" Okay?

Let just say we are trading ETH, okay?

Or CC, for example.

So, we are trading CC among ourselves.

How do we define that trade in a template?

So, the template will start by, of course, defining all the people involved.

Seller is a party because it's an it's an individual.

Buyer is a party.

Name of the assets.

Price of the asset because of course CC has a price.

So, if you're selling something, it has to have a value.

So, you say buyer, seller, buyer, asset, and the price of the asset.

So, seller is me, buyer is you.

Like in this example, just say Dwight is the buyer who has a party.

Asset will be CC.

Price will be let's just say 0.16 or something.

For an example.

Now, we declared all the parameters of what this template would look like.

Where signatory is the seller, and observer is the buyer.

Now, if I'm selling something, I have to be agreeing with you that hey, I agree with the price.

So, I'm going to sell you this.

So, I'm going to sign off to the trade.

So, I'm the signatory as the seller.

Now, this whole thing has to be seen by Dwight, who is the other who is the other person who's requesting as the buyer of CC.

So, they are an observer.

As we have learned, observer is the one who can see, but cannot do change.

So, buyer is the observer who can see transaction being happened.

I am the one who has to sign the transaction, and then the whole thing continues.

Now, it is just in theory.

We have to make it real.

So, we define a new choice.

Choice is to accept.

So, if even if I'm say I I am just transferring something to you, you have to accept.

Yeah, I'm just sorry about that.

But, you have to accept the whole asset from me.

So, the choice here would be to accept the new asset.

Contract ID is trade.

Okay.

It would be trade proposal instead of trade here.

So, controller is the buyer, right?

So, this particular choice is controlled by the buyer.

So, Dwight has to accept this choice that they are the one who are accepting.

So, they are the one who are like from controlling the choice, right?

Exercising the choice.

So, controller is the buyer and then again, do create trade with seller buyer asset price.

Now, we are saying this is all done.

Now, it just create a new trade with seller buyer asset and price.

Simple as that.

And this means that seller creates a proposal, buyer sees the proposal, decides to accept it or not, okay?

Once they accept it, trade contract is created, both parties are done, and the trade is done.

Hence, this is how we move forward.

So, this is how you learn Daml's privacy model in the first place.

Each party sees the actions that they have a taken.

So, no if, for example, it is me and Dwight who are defined as the two parties here, but if there is somebody else, let us say Anthony, who is not defined as a party in the smart contract, Anthony is neither an observer like like a buyer or not even an owner like me, who is a seller, then Anthony has no access to whatever we do.

Our trade, our smart contract, nothing.

So, this is called as the privacy at core at Canton gives you using Daml, and this is known as proof of stakeholders.

So, that is the whole point where party sees exactly what they're allowed to see on Canton network.

Okay?

Now, so, signatory, observer, and dual lens.

Let us remove dual lens.

We have signatory and observer.

Observer sees the contract, but cannot do anything.

Signatory has full visibility and has to sign it.

So, this is how the whole Canton network like privacy model works.

Um I guess now we have learned enough to actually write something.

So, so far and my screen is not sharing currently.

So far we have just seen on how do we get started, what is the architecture looks like, global synchronizer, multiple validators, okay?

After that we have seen how Daml is different.

We have seen what Daml looks like.

What is an observer, signatory, signatory controller, choice template.

We have seen a real example of a real template of a trade.

And then we have seen the whole point of this, which is providing privacy.

So, this is the first part of the workshop where you have already seen and learned everything about like Daml, its concept, its terminologies in theory, right?

So, now we move ahead to the next part, which is actually writing a new concept.

So, for that uh generally for us on Canton network, things are a little different.

You are used to deploying something on an RPC, but for Canton network you deploy by using a validator.

So, now for all of you, you don't need to set up a validator, okay?

Because it's at something of a big hackathon and so for that we have created a totally new um tool, which I'm going to share with you the link of in the chat is devnet.c4.io.

So, we would require in this hackathon for all of you to deploy on devnet.

So, if you go to this link, I'm going to show you what you find.

So, let us say I'm going to share my screen again.

So, I'm just going to go here at Seaboard.

So, here is what you would see as your home screen.

I think you can see my screen.

So, this is your home screen how it will look like.

You can log in using Loop.

You don't need an invite code to use the Loop wallet when you are exactly on this website.

It automatically gets created by using a Loop wallet, okay?

Now, when you come on this screen Okay, here.

So, now when you come on this screen, you can go up here all the way.

You click here.

You initially see personal when you come in.

But, when you click here there is a new organization called as Encode Hackathon.

So, this is the organization that the foundation has created on this devnet.seaboard.io for all the builders here to be deployed on a devnet validator, which is already pre-configured, okay?

Now, if you want to deploy this on mainnet and testnet and make it a real project, you have to deploy it on on like maybe Encode's validator, for example.

So, Encode runs a validator for mainnet, right?

So, if you want to then move ahead and then now you are ready to deploy &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; on the mainnet, then you can deploy on the mainnet validator for Encode, you know?

And it is simple to just like configure the whole thing.

So, for currently in this workshop, I'm normally going to show you on devnet because devnet is minimum bare bare minimum you could say to submit a project.

At least you should have something like on devnet.

So, when you come here there is Encode Hackathon.

You can't see it because I need to add all of you to this particular organization in the first place, okay?

So, for that, you just need to give me this particular party ID here on your all the way top right.

Just copy and send it on Discord maybe where I can support you or just add you into this uh organization.

But, what is the advantage of adding into this organization, you would ask.

So, I would say it's it's generally pretty simple.

Look it.

The whole point would be to allow you to deploy on DevNet without any hassle.

Okay?

Now, we will write our first smart contract in DAML for this workshop and see how to build and deploy using Sea Port.

So, for us, either we directly upload a DAR to a validator.

So, if you already have a project made up in your local and compiled using DPM, you can just upload your DAR.

If you have the whole thing into your GitHub, you can connect your GitHub.

Or for us, we are just going to click on a new blank contract.

We will give give it a name, so it will be easier for us to make it a name.

Let us say So, we are going to write a simple token smart contract.

So, when you click on simple token, it creates a new project.

It feels very like Remix IDE.

Okay?

I'm also available on Discord if you need any clarification on any of this project.

So, I am on Discord.

You can just tag me, and I think, yeah, I would be there to help you out.

So, let's get started.

Now, we have a DAML.yaml file.

It is basically a file that declares all the basic necessities.

You need to have this to actually deploy something.

Then, we have a new blank file.

So, we are just going to rename it into simple token .daml.

So, now, it as you can see, the logo is changed.

Now, it becomes a DAML file.

So, this is our terminal here.

We will just drag it a little bit down.

And we will start writing our first smart contract in DAML.

Okay?

let's get started.

So, when you write your first smart contract in DAML, you need to make sure that you define by declaring a module.

So, when you So, when you start your smart contract, you start by declaring the module name with I mean, module must be declared and then it must match the file name.

Okay?

So, for example, if the name of the module here is So, the name of the file is simple token.

We have to make sure the name of the module is simple token as well.

Okay?

Simple token where?

So, this is the the definition of a module declaration.

So, you have to declare the module in the first place.

Without declaring the module, it won't be good.

I mean, in general, and it won't work.

You will get 100 different types of error.

So, I can see there are people in the chat who wants to collaborate.

Uh it would be good.

So, uh yeah, Kevin Dwight can send you the Discord link in the chat.

And uh maybe Ben, you can use the Discord to collaborate with people.

And uh yeah, that would be good a good way to go.

So, moving on, now we we start by declaring the name of the module, which has to be again, I cannot stress this enough, should be same as the DAML file here.

So, we declare the module like this.

Then we import the library uh which makes the whole thing run is known as DAML script.

So, now when you import uh not that, so now you start by mak- making a module name and importing a module as Daml script.

Okay, basically your Daml script library makes this whole thing run in the first place.

So now everything is done to set up the smart contract.

Now we start the work.

Okay, so now to even before to define a new token or what the token looks like, you know, we need to create a new data type.

A data type is basically a class that shows what a token should look like, you know.

It's It's like a a field that just have like all the core parameters of a token.

So I am just pasting it here.

It's pretty simple and straightforward.

I already have it defined internally that I can just give you.

I'm dropping the same thing in chat.

This is pretty straightforward so it should not help like be a major issue here, but I'm just going to data token info and equal to token with symbol, for example, Canton token or CC.

Right?

Quantity would be the decimal or you could say price would be the decimal like how many units this contract represent.

So I would say quantity would be, for example, we need to create a new contract a new token for this hackathon.

I'm going to say USDC.

End quote.

Okay, how many tokens do we want to make?

So let us just say we want And I This is how you write comments in Daml, by the way.

So I'm just writing comments.

It is not a part of the code.

So we want to make 10,000 tokens maybe.

So 10,000 tokens would be good.

We can even write some other parameters like value or you could say price would be decimal, be what would be the price for this.

Example, 0.1 4.

USD, okay?

It's an example.

But what we are essentially doing here is we are basically defining a new data type that exactly shows what the token looks like, what is the parameter of a token, and like a general definition of what are we going to be using as the reference token in the smart contract.

So now we move ahead.

We declared the first data type of a token, and now now we know that the new data type is declared.

Now for the whole thing, we just need to move ahead, and we now we need to declare how it will look like as a template.

So template is basically just the functions.

So now we have a token.

Great.

We have a token, and what the token looks like is also done.

But I want to keep it simple, and let's start not waste time, and let's start.

So now we declare a template.

A template in this particular sense and scenario, it is basically just a functionality or a function, more closer to that, that we declare, okay?

So in our case, basically, a template is basically a function in a bigger smart contract.

So many multiple templates together creates a new like smart contract in the first place.

So we'll move ahead, and Okay.

So we are going to move ahead and declare more templates here, which defines the whole thing.

So So the template for this particular token we have to start by simply just declaring the token, you know, which is like okay, so you have declared a new class of token.

But what the token would look like?

Okay, so there is a token, but who is it for?

Or who is is it going to go to?

For example, if there is a token and you're going to transfer the token to somebody else, but then who is the owner of the token, right?

Like how would you define this whole workflow?

Like token goes from one person to the other person, but how would you define that?

There should be a way to define that whole mechanics into your DAML smart contract.

So we start by a new template called as let us say simple token itself.

So this particular template in your DAML file, what it is doing is it is just starting, it is kicking off the DAML smart contract by declaring the most bare minimum information, okay?

The the width here in a template declares the contract's parameters, you know, the fields of a contract.

So now when we say that it is a simple token, So we say template simple token with it means that now we have a template named simple token with this many parameters.

So what would be the parameters of a token, right?

So when we say we have a token, we have somebody who issued a token, then we have somebody who is the owner of the token, right?

Or maybe let us say the token needs a symbol, for example, USDC and code needs a symbol, let us say USTC EN, okay?

So this is a symbol plus quantity plus val every single thing that we defined in the data type, right?

So we need to have a token issuer, a token owner.

So, for example, the token is issued by Encode to Jatin, who is the owner of this token as well, or Anthony, who is the owner of this token.

And then, that particular token needs all its information, like the name of the token, the symbol of the token, and the quantity of how many tokens needs to be created or minted, or what is the price of a token, okay?

So, let's do that.

We create a new parameter of somebody who issues the token, issuer, and that person has to be an individual on the ledger.

So, as we have learned, it has to be someone who issues the token, USDCEN example, Encode Club.

So, now the Encode Club issued a new token, let's just say USDCEN, to somebody else.

For example, now this token is given to Anthony as the owner, who can decide the fate of this token.

Now, Anthony is a person on the ledger, like an individual.

So, owner of this token, USDCEN, issued by Encode Club, okay?

So, now the issuer and owner.

And now, instead of declaring all these three into one one one and complicate this, why not we just say here.

So, token info is basically, or you could say it should be it will be the same, so let's just I'm going to write info.

So, the information of a token is everything which is already declared in the class.

So, now you see what we are doing, right?

Instead of declaring this whole thing every single time when you do something with the token, we will just reference information back to the data class.

So, instead of creating the same thing over and over and over again, we just created a class instead and which we can reference again and again.

Right?

And now all info of USDC e n based on above data class we made.

So, then this is how you start a new template where we are declaring the issuer, the owner, and we are instead of declaring every single parameter again and again and again, we are just referencing the data class as this will be then the information in the parameter.

So, the parameter has to be there and that includes every single piece of data class that we have declared.

Symbol, name, quantity, value, all that.

Now comes the next part.

We have declared the template.

We have declared the parameters of the template, like who can do what, but I'm said like who is there in the first place, but we now have to declare who can do what, okay?

It is good in theory, but now we have to do some action.

So, in action, we have to use the powers of the terms that we have learned.

Signatory, observer, controller, and all that.

So, now we have to make sure that uh we define the right access to the right person.

If a person gets less access, they can't do the right thing that necessity.

If somebody gets more access, they can do more harm.

So, we have to make sure that we define the right access of the whole thing, okay?

So, now we have to go back to the definition of the overall token.

The overall token is issued by N code.

So, N code has to sign off to the overall token because they have to sign off that hey, we have issued the token.

All good from our side.

But, the owner is also somebody who has the power to say I'm giving it to somebody else.

I'm good with giving it to somebody else.

So, they also have to sign off whenever they are giving token to somebody else.

So, as you would see this time it is a rare thing because now both the parties has to be the owner of the same I mean the whole token and signs off.

So, what we declare is we know the term for it.

It's signatory.

So, now when we say signatory, both issuer and owner are now the the signatory.

That means they have to sign off to the whole thing.

When we say that we need your permission, your authorization to do anything.

But, at the same time an issuer has to see where the owner is sending, okay?

Here's the thing.

So, for example, in our smart contract um N code club gave the tokens to Anthony, you know, owner example So, Anthony has the power to give token to somebody else, but the issuer has to see, right?

Where my tokens are going, who the token is being given to.

So, issuer has to see the change in the overall state of the smart contract whenever a new choice is exercised.

So, when there is a choice they transfer the token from Anthony to Dwight, then N code club as the issuer has to know that there is a change in the overall state, right?

But this is optional.

Okay, this is totally optional.

What we can do is we can like grant the access.

Now, even if you don't add this, it won't do a harm, but again, we can be like observer is the issuer, okay?

So, we can have the issuer as observer, too, at some point or if there is a new entity, for example, let just say encode hired a new regulator for them to oversee the tokens operation.

So, now this new regulator is the observer.

That means the regulator will be quiet and do not does anything like won't do anything.

Just see things moving in in front to note everything down.

And that is the classic definition of an observer, right?

So, that's how we would add a regulator into the whole equation in the first place, okay?

Now, there is one thing in DAML which you should know, which is known as ensure.

Ensure is like a condition.

So, in in Solidity or Rust, you are like, I I can add a condition which has to be met to be able to move further in my application.

So, if the condition is not met, a person just aborts.

How do we do that in DAML?

We do that by using ensure.

So, ensure um we have to ensure that overall let just say, I cannot I should not send you zero amount of token, right?

That should not be the case.

So, let just say we have to ensure that a person or the owner is sending a new person at least minimum one token.

How do you ensure that condition?

So, we say ensure So, now we say info dot We are have referencing a particular The info is basically this whole data type.

Dot means now you have to specifically define what?

So, we say So, we have to define quantity info dot quantity.

Right?

So, we have to say that info dot quantity, that means the quantity part of the overall data type of the encode token should be more than 0.00.

I mean, you can just write 0.0, but again cool, you know, 0.00 looks cool like there should be minimum but yeah.

So, that is how you you will you will just see the whole thing as in sure that this is going to be more than 0.00 in at minimum, okay?

That is how we typically look at defining a minimum condition that has to be made.

Now, a template is defined.

That is great.

A template is just there.

But, what does this template do?

You're defining a particular token token from a data type which is declared, but what does this token do?

Like will it do any functionality at all?

Yeah, it does.

It's actually going to transfer from one person to another person, okay?

And that is what we are going to do.

Now, we are going to make it alive.

That means you're going to add a functionality of transferring from one person, let us say the owner Anthony, to a new owner who is asking for the token, let us say Dwight, okay?

So, now we add a new choice here.

Choice would be to transfer from one person to the another person.

Let's just say choice name is transfer.

Right?

So, the name of the choice could be anything that you would say you I and code or I could say transfer USDC and but I'm just going to keeping it simple for the sake of the workshop and I'm just going to say choice transfer contract ID equal to the name of the We're just going to copy-paste the name of the template.

So, now this is how you would declare a choice in the first place, okay?

Now again, we write with because we need to make sure that it comes with the right parameters when you write a new functionality, it has to have a parameter, right?

So, we say choice would be with new owner.

So, now if Anthony who is the owner transfers some the the token to somebody else, that then they become the new owner of this, right?

So, we declare the new owner here because this new owner only exist.

So, now the question is why don't we do declare this new owner here?

I know you some of you might have that question, but the thing is new owner only exist if you transfers the token to somebody else.

Without that choice, this new owner does not exist.

That's why that has to be defined under the choice or it is ideal to have this under the choice, okay?

Um new owner would be a party because again, for the obvious reasons, new owner has to be a party.

My bad.

Yeah, my bad.

It has to be a capital one.

So, yeah, make sure that it is capital when you write party.

I just noticed it.

So, if it is not in blue, that's a problem.

Okay.

So, the new owner has to be, let's just say like this.

Okay, the new owner is a party on the ledger.

That means it is a new person on the ledger.

Now, we will say controller.

Again, based on what we have learned so far, we have to make sure that controller is the one who wants the money, right?

Who wants you to transfer.

So, who needs to exercise this choice is the controller.

So, the controller is the one So, currently, in this particular use case, we have two parties right now, issuer and owner.

Issuer is the encode club.

Owner is the is Anthony.

Regulator won't do anything.

Regulator is just an observer, so it becomes out of the window.

Two people with the authority to do transfer, owner and the issuer.

In this case, owner has to tell the issuer that I'm transferring the token and I have to transfer from one person to another person, from me to that particular person.

So, they have to exercise the chart transfer of the choice.

Okay, so out of these two, as I say, the one opposite to the higher party becomes the controller.

Okay?

That is like a cheat code I would use.

So, controller would be the owner.

So, owner is the the lower party compared to the both parties available, who needs to make sure that they're exercising the choice of transfer to somebody random out there.

So, in this case, the controller becomes the owner.

And lastly, do.

Do create.

So, now it comes to this.

Okay?

Now, create this with new owner equal to owner.

So, what it does is now this whole thing is done.

So, do the whole smart contract convert this, create this, make it done.

Create this.

Again, now it will restart the whole thing as new owner would be the owner, okay?

Or I would say the better way based on what we see is now the owner is equal to new owner.

That means and the new owner is now the owner.

So, if I own all of my tokens is with Dwight, so now Dwight is the owner of the tokens, has to ask the permission and then just going to sign off.

So, you see how this all works, right?

You just go around and around and around.

The template goes back to the power to the person who holds the token.

And that is how you define your first template, you define your first choice, you define the whole thing, okay?

But let just say you want Okay, let us just let us do something more.

Okay, let us just do And now here is the thing.

We have We have 15 minutes.

So, I'm going to make it like add another um choice here.

Would be fun to do that.

I just think thought of it is burn.

So, let us just say that um contract ID the same as simple token.

Copy paste it here.

Okay.

So, imagine Or you know what?

It is just It does not require the It does not require the parameters.

You just burn it.

So, we will just write it as choice as burn.

I guess that would be good because it needs to go with all.

So, when you when you write like a singleton uh choice that affects whole, affects everything, you can just say choice semicolon and the bracket.

It's just like It affects the whole thing up, okay?

So, now um when you are going to write like Okay, you have to understand that how would we write semicolon, okay?

So, here is semicolon under bracket choice burn.

Compared to contract ID, okay?

So, when you write contract ID or something, you have to make sure that that choice returns a value, okay?

So, when your choice is returning a value in in Daml, you write the contract ID as simple token template or this is the token, this is the template or choice or whatever, but if your choice, when you exercise it, does not return any value at all, we say the bracket sign, okay?

The choice burn bracket.

So, what we are doing is essentially now the controller becomes the owner for obvious reasons that we already know.

So, controller is the owner.

So, for example, owner decides to just burn some amount of token, okay?

So, what we will do is they will just do burn.

Do.

So, now do does the whole thing return absolutely nothing, you know?

I mean, nothing is creating.

It's It's like you're archiving the whole thing up.

You're burning the whole thing up.

So, nobody gets anything.

Nothing gets returned in the first place.

So, when you say this, you are basically writing a new burn contract in the first place, okay?

So, that is how you would define the whole thing.

And I think we are pretty much done and we are at the end of the line.

So, we defined a template with two choices of transfer and burn.

We learned how to define a choice which returns something aka it has an output.

Then we've learned how to define a choice that has no output.

Okay?

So, that is how you would define the whole smart contract in the first place.

So, this is how a general mindset looks like.

Honestly, it is very easy when compared to Solidity or Rust and all that structure, where you're writing most of your time in your head how would this look like on paper, but instead on Daml you write everything in your head and you compile it into a real code saying that this is how it would look like.

This is the access control like language.

This is more like a type language, you know, like Haskell, if you would.

So, this is more relatable to that.

We have wrote our first Daml contract.

We save it.

The file is saved.

All we need to do on CPort is to go up, build the project.

So, now the project is getting built.

There might be a few issues here.

So, the build is failed because of Okay, so there is no multi-package file yet, so you need to create a multi-package file because you have multiple parties involved.

But, I can just quickly give you a peek at here.

Let us go down.

We go to intro data.

It already has a multi-package file created.

See, so when we have multiple modules like this, I'm just going to show you how quickly it happens.

You build the contract.

Um okay, I guess there is some issue with the CPort, but uh I'm just going to ignore it.

Currently, anyways, yeah.

The whole point of us would be to actually start writing our your first Tamil smart contract.

After the workshop, I can send you a link to a dedicated video I have created for foundation on how to deploy and build on Cport, which basically teaches you how to do that.

But, I guess that would be helpful for you to start deploying on Cport.

When you click on deploy, you select the DAR file.

So, when you build something, you already it becomes a DAR file that you need to upload on the validator.

It appears here.

You select that.

You go to the validator.

You either select this validator, okay?

Which is the one that we have configured for you on Devnet, so that at least all of you can deploy on Devnet in the first place.

But, if you have access to the Encode hackathons or like Encode's validator, you can even go to settings and add your own validator.

You can just go here.

You can go to personal.

You can upload DAR.

Or you can just go here.

Wait a minute.

Save validator settings.

New configuration.

You can You can add the Encode validator here if you want to deploy on the Encode Devnet validator.

In any case, I feel like deploying on validator should be an easy work.

But, if you have any issues with that, just tag me, and I'm always there to help you out on Discord.

Okay?

Um this is basically a walk-through of how you would write your first smart contract in Daml.

And yep, that's that's basically the the the perfect flow of how you would do think and write in the first place.

And for the Cport, uh the video will be here after the workshop.

That would be everything that we had for the workshop.

Any doubt, um you can ask the Encode Club team.

If not, you can just tag me in the Discord.

I'm there um on the Discord as well.

Thank you so much, right.

&gt;&gt; Wow, lovely.

Thanks, uh Jatin.

What a really useful session today.

Uh so, hope uh that gave everyone a clear technical picture of the stack and how to build on it.

Uh remember the next up we have the Canton ecosystem overview which is going to be on Monday the 23rd at 2:00 p.m.

And don't forget to create a project, add your team add add your team, and share the progress by Sunday the 21st of June.

Okay, so this Sunday coming up.

After that the mid-hackathon point uh checkpoint will be on Sunday the 28th of June as well.

Uh so quick keep questions coming the Discord and on the platform page.

In regards to the Discord one of the team uh will be in touch with you guys tomorrow sending over the Discord link.

Okay, so thank you very much and I'll see you guys soon.