Meeting Técnico: Canton Ecosystem Overview
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mylkBGfuSnI
================================================================================

Right. Okay. So, thanks everyone uh for joining today and welcome back to the build on Canon hackathon. Uh today's session is the Canon EOS ecosystem overview uh where we're going to have a broader look at where C canon sits in the market and the opportunities for you guys as builders. So, just a quick reminder before we start, your final submission date um closes on Monday the 13th of July at 12:59 uh BST.

Okay? And your project must be deployed live on the Canton DevNet to be order to to qualify. And I'll give more info uh on that at the end of the um uh meeting today. So uh keep your keep keep your questions coming in the chat u throughout and we'll be able we'll be happy to sort of go through them. Uh and today speaker is Jacob Chambers and he's director of business development at uh Canton.

So over to you Jacob. Yeah, thank you so much and and thank you all for joining today and and more importantly thank you for participating in this. Um you know we uh we we've been very excited about the program we've been able to put together here. um with uh with partnership with the Canton Foundation and with with Encode uh to to pull this off and so um you know this is this is critical work and very meaningful. Um so just to to give you guys an overview of of where I sit in the organization um I lead our partnerships and infrastructure group um what what that means is you know we have uh and and I work for Digital Asset I should I should also say.

So, for those who aren't familiar, Digital Asset created the Canton network. Um, I'll go into a little bit of that history there to provide some contextual uh basis for um for how I think about the ecosystem. Um, but Digital Asset created the Canton network. Um, you know, we're we're a 10-year-old organization, over 10 year olds organization this point. Um, and we we provide different primitives and technological primitives u to to help organizations who are building on on the network.

Um we also are very actively involved in uh the go to market and growth of the ecosystem as well. Um but but also at the same time a very much a for-profit company um and just one member of of the broader canton network. Um so within digital asset I lead our partnerships group um which works with anything from large uh advisory and consulting firms to um uh development shops to cloud providers and hyperscalers um to to help grow and advocate for the the ecosystem. Um, also on the kind of Canton network mainet side, oversee our infrastructure, our stable coins and crypto teams. And so infrastructure is really anything that underpins the ecosystem, all of our wallet custody, uh, all of your node operations, um, any of the bridges and interop, anybody doing anything with data, AML, KYC, risk intelligence, um, oracles, things like that.

Um and then on the stable coins and crypto side um you know all all issuers stable coin orchestration any piece of stable coin infra uh as well as um the uh uh our DeFi landscape within within crypto. Uh and so through that overseeing those teams we kind of um I work with them to go and and put you really a three-phased approach towards our ecosystem engagement. So we go out and we help recruit organizations who we think would be valuable to the Canton ecosystem um and and help them um you make a decision to deploy technology services etc within within Canton. Um and then we go through a very deep enablement motion of making sure those organizations are enabled as they interact uh within Canton um and can can do whatever it is they do as a business right capably within within Canton. Um and then kind of in the third phase once once all the enablement's done we we do joint go to market and um and joint scaling of of their mo of their activity um of of additional BD work in partnership together um etc.

And so have had the uh the chance to work with you know anybody from um you know kind of your your largest global exchanges your largest centralized exchanges your largest bridge operators um all the way down to you know one two person uh organizations who are who are just starting up and seeking their first seed round of capital. So a very broad scope of of exposure there. Um and uh and and really um interesting insights across the board. Um I do have to apologize. Uh we as digital asset right now are in the middle of very critical um testing cycles um with a a notable global uh partner um which you'll be seeing press press releases about in in the in the coming weeks.

Um, due to that I'm I'm having certain infosc controls on what I'm able to share uh and and what access I'm able to get to my computer. And so I I had a nice deck uh with an ecosystem overview built out. I'm trying to work with our internal security teams to see if they can uh open the door to to allow me to share here. Um but unfortunately my browser permissions are are locked. So I'll talk through um again some of the origins of digital asset the uh the motivations for architecting canon the way that we did.

Um I'll I'll segue that into an overview of just Canton network in the early innings and where we find ourselves in the evolution of the ecosystem. Uh we'll give some information on some of the thematic opportunities we see within the network. Uh and then um and then finally go into into areas that that should be right for development and opportunity for um for building within Canton. Uh if at any point throughout this I get a ping from from our infosc teams that I'm able to uh to share and and um pull up the slide deck, you know, I'll I'll save you guys from having to look at look at my face talking the entire time. So um yeah, thanks.

With that, let me go in and and kind of start from the top. So So basically when when I go and talk with ecosystem participants and and share Canton, um you know, really I I I anchor on a couple of things that we do very differently um than than other ecosystems. And so, uh, the the first and foremost message that most participants take away, um, from working with us is is frankly the fact that that we have privacy, um, as as an L1, you know, and, uh, we're pretty, um, open about saying that we, you know, we're the only network that that has privacy. Um, there are a lot of other blockchains that, um, uh, position their technology as having some form of privacy. Uh, but you can get into semantics.

A lot of us would believe that you know there's there's a form of anonymity there which isn't necessarily true privacy and and the way we define privacy is uh individual actors on network have control over their own data um and and the permissions of their data and who's allowed to see what in in certain uh transactional environments. And so that approach to privacy selective disclosure is is how that's categorized. role-based permissioning in some contexts. Um really provides a different element of privacy uh that resonates with definitely an institutional audience but also uh progressively more and more with with kind of the um next wave of of crypto and DeFi that we see popping up where um you can provide very interesting tools and capabilities if you have control over privacy that way. So rewinding back to the origins of digital asset, digital asset was started by Yuval Ruse and um and Eric Sarini and Shawer.

Uh Eric and Uval were working within DRW at the time um which is a large uh market maker um and and prop trading firm. Um uh they started Cumberland and and and and were very early in DRW ventures and then partnered with Shawer who who had been working on um security and privacy in based out of Israel. the the thesis here was to take all the value of blockchain um you know the very they realized very early on that obviously blockchain itself early bit Bitcoin um early Ethereum had the opportunity to really change how finance flowed um but you you couldn't do that on the public ledger and so find a way to utilize this technology and uh constructed in a way that made sense for firms that wanted to do institutional regulated type workflows um but but also wanted to control and sovereignty of their data. So set out uh to to effectively establish that process. Um one of the core developments in uh architecting the stack early on was the uh creation of DAML um who you may be very well familiar with at this point but is our proprietary smart contract language um that that allows to code contracts uh with the privacy permissions on Canton.

um that combined with the underlying blockchain of of what is now the the Canton blockchain um the we were able to uh basically position blockchain technology in an institutional way. So through the first 10 years of the network um we took to market this technology um in in a way that uh was was really oriented towards large institutions and so worked with global banks like Goldman Sachs, HSBC um BNP to build tokenization platforms uh worked with uh large global banks to manage uh large books of broadly syndicated loans. Um I think many of you may have seen that we worked with with the financial technology firm Broadidge to uh build a repo application that um today does about seven half trillion dollars of notional volume in in repo trading per month um five of the largest oil and gas producers to settle physical natural gas trades um amongst one another uh utilizing blockchain ledger. And so all of those different types of institutional activities uh were um were were were are enabled uh via the canton blockchain demo smart contracts. Um and the go to market was very much focused around a kind of oneoff you know enterprise DT uh type engagement.

So we'd work with these institutions to execute their specific use case um utilizing the technology. But there there really wasn't a uh broader environment for for these organizations to um to interact with and and the demand from the clients had had been we would like for uh to to increase composability. All along that was a capability via the Kto blockchain as as many of you guys know now and and we see in the modern can network as it is today. Um but but that really wasn't the appetite of institutions early on and it became a demand over time. you know, okay, we have this technology here, we have this these these applications that have been developed.

How do we segue that into um you know, a composable environment that looks more like what public blockchains looked like? Um, you know, as some of an anecdote there, I think most of us who are in the space and you know, the early 2020s, right? Um, realize that there was a there was a kind of a a talking point that permeated throughout the industry is like, oh, you know, uh, you either are a private blockchain or you're a public blockchain. there was really no concept of of kind of a public blockchain ecosystem with privacy. Um and so that was um that was kind of the the demand of our client base and really kind of where we always oriented or intended for the network to be to be oriented towards and end up as.

Uh so as as the climate began to allow for that, institutions became more comfortable with public blockchain that demand became louder amongst our existing client base. um you know it it the opportunity became ripe for uh for launching what what had always kind of been the plan in in the Canton network mainet. And so just over two years ago, I think it was two years ago last week or maybe a couple of weeks ago um we we took the Canten network mainet live uh with with an early cohort of launch partners um and uh and and and now have since you know spent the past two years scaling that up. And so the difference here is uh from from an architectural standpoint of what the K10 network mainet is versus what you know we had built as digital asset and and previously um our previous clients was within all of these different applications uh for there's there's always been a a synchronizer that synchronizes the private transactions amongst different parties. With the launch of the Canton network we we launched what is referred to as the global synchronizer.

So that's effectively the the synchronizer that sits at the middle is somewhat of a post office we like to say of private transactions across the ecosystem um that that helps order and and route uh the the private transactions that are validated by individual validators. So we launched the global synchronizer that synchronizer is operated by the super validators on network. uh it is uh also by by way of launch at at time of launch was gifted um in governance to uh at the time that the Linux foundation. So Linux foundation had set up a separate program underneath uh their open source uh governance model um around the Canton network um that originally was named the Global Synchronizer Foundation. It has since been renamed to the Canten Foundation and so Canton Foundation oversees the governance.

The global synchronizer is is is operated by the collective superv validators. Um and digital asset is is is one of those super validators. We sit um on certain governance committee boards within the foundation. Um but you have many many very prominent ecosystem actors that fill both the infrastructure side of of responsibility of of the global synchronizer and running SV nodes as well as the governance um within committees like tokconomics committee, tech and ops committee um and subcommittees like you know collateral subcommittee or um marketing subcommittee things things like that. Um at the same time of launching the global synchronizer uh you all are probably very well aware that we launched Cantencoin as um an intentionally public token uh that is validated by the super validators in the global synchronizer.

Um Cantencoin was a very fair launch. It was um it it uh everybody who has who has earned cantoncoin there's a premine preuance. was launched on day one genesis block of the network. Anybody who's earned Cantencoin has done it by providing some sort of value to the ecosystem. So either running some sort of infrastructure um participating users through their validator nodes also receive Cantoncoin distributions um and and uniquely one of our other very uh unique differentiators as a network is that we also reward the applications, right?

Um, and so if you have an application that brings value to the ecosystem, we want to make sure that you are rewarded in token emissions, um, not just having those emissions go to to the infrastructure and the validator layer, um, like like they are in other ecosystems. Um, and and so that's, uh, we like to kind of aligned incentives, right? We we want the organizations that are providing utility to to the ecosystem to receive tokens. Um those three tokens uh streams are again began on day one of Canton network. They're on a 10-year fixed minting curve.

Uh where each one has a set distributed amount per year. Um once we hit the end of that 10-year curve, uh we will it goes into a long tail of emissions. um over time. Um across all three of those streams, the application rewards uh receive the vast majority of uh applications receive the vast majority of rewards over time. Um and so it's it's obviously a very lucrative opportunity for for organizations to go in and um and and earn those tokens through that stream.

Um the last point on the token that I'll make um and I think is is an interesting one too is that through that set fixed 10-year cycle again you have the the set amount of tokens that are minted on every 10-minute block basis. Um but all of the the fees that are generated on network you know about a dollar in fees um so every transaction costs somewhere around generally a dollar. it's it's based in megabyte size, but within that fee structure uh the the fees are paid in Canton Coin and they're they're burned off network. And so um at some point and I think most people track this if you follow crypto Twitter or follow Kanto network um online are tracking towards what we refer to as kind of the the burnment equilibrium to where burn of the tokens through the fee missions uh at at some point will allow or effectively potentially outpace the distribution mechanism um that is that is fixed today. And so that is uh you know assuming that that we reach that that point where the the token then becomes deflationary and and there's there potentially if the market cap stays equal some some upward price pressure there.

So a very interesting tokconomic structure um particularly in comparison to to anything that um you most most other uh networks have put out in in the market today. Um on the the general go to market of of the ecosystem. Yeah, I think we we I I kind of look at this in in phases. Um since since we've taken the Canton network mainet live um over over the past two years, you know, the way that we rolled out the ecosystem was really finding our your core partners to kind of establish, you know, minimum viable network in the first six months of of the of the network. So if we cut back to the second half of 2024, um it was really spent around finding those those kind of key early scaling partners to to provide growth to network.

The early partners to run other super validator nodes. Uh the early partners to provide um validator node operations and um and white label validator nodes for customers. Uh the early partners to provide wallet and custody services. Uh I believe there's there was a a single day where I think DFNS and Copper both went live uh the same day and there's a little bit of a debate as to who was the first to actually support as as a wallet custo provider on network. Right?

So those are two of the early partners that we had jump in um kind of right off the bat to help us scale out the ecosystem. Um early KYC providers early early um uh data visualization things like that. So the first six months were spent kind of building that that core base of the network that we could then go scale this this ecosystem on top of. Um from there and throughout 2025 the next year I say was was a very rapid expansion phase. um you know bringing in more use case driven partnerships.

Um you bringing in more of the the traditional or institutions that um you found themselves in the middle of a kind of a macropolitical climate last year that allowed for institutions to actually take the step into into public blockchain ecosystems um and and expanding out the utility u of uh of the ecosystem by way of this this rapid expansion. So I think beginning of last year and in in you know January February time we had somewhere between 30 and and 45 validator nodes on the Canton network mainet um operating by the end of 2025 um you know we we had eclipsed I think 950,000 nodes um and so a pretty rapid expansionary phase across all types of customers um uh operators uh infrastructure providers etc. um the the core focus and market opportunity that that Canton had really set out to tackle given the unique components that we have in terms of privacy um and uh and and in the control of the smart contracts um within Canton had been around kind of a couple of broad categories, right? And so um we we found ourselves kind of thinking about the the evolution of of the ecosystem from go to market lens through kind of an assetbased perspective, right? Um you know we've we've focused on bringing very high quality collateral assets into Canton.

Um this is uh evidenced in in the or or represented really in the form primarily of short-term government bonds um and in short-term government debt. Uh other pieces of highquality collateral um are also of high interest whether that's you know potentially you know wrapped bitcoin from other ecosystems or um or or potentially a commodity like gold um or or some sort of money market fund or something of that effect, right? Um the highquality collateral assets is something that uh we've we've focused on making sure we have sufficient liquidity of and work with uh the right issuers to bring into the ecosystem. Um, this right now is is really kind of manifested through our work with central securities deposiitories throughout the globe like the DTCC, uh, Eurocar, Euronext, uh, Clear Stream, of course, uh, the JSCC in Japan to to help bring, um, you know, at at the source of these assets, um, the the the the issuance of them on chain. Another angle of kind of the assetbased uh approach that we've taken is really around um cash cash equivalent.

So stable coins um both you know USD genius compliant USD non-genius compliant USD um non USD stable coins um things of that sort uh you know there's been a large emphasis now to bring sufficient liquidity in across the whole stable coin landscape. Uh I think you guys may have seen we we we are pretty active in the tokenized deposit realm as well working with a lot of the the global banks um to to issue their tokenized deposit strategies on Canton. And so really making sure we have sufficient cash options as well um within within the network. Uh and then and then the third kind of leg of that stool, if you will, um that that helps us kind of create a very robust virtual ecosystem that we focused on is um is is bringing on high quality applications that can mobilize those two sorts of asset classes. Um and so within the collateral side of things um and and and short-term government debt, you know, you see a lot of use cases centered around capital markets.

So things like repo trading is something that's very popular. Um I'm happy to do do Q&amp;A on um you know how uh how how we see re repo uh opportunities within the ecosystem. Um also around lending uh around margin management at exchanges um things like that the collateral mobility is uh is is is a huge market opportunity. To put some context around that I think there's 200 trillion some odd dollars of eligible collateral currently locked up. And the reason it's locked up is because it's underpinning very inefficient systems, long settlement delay cycles, um mismatch systems that require a lot of reconciliation across various data constructs, things like that.

And so if you can bring that onchain, increase efficiency, reduce risk around a lot of these different systems, um you you can you can free up that trap collateral and and organizations can mobilize it more and have more working capital to go to go earn money. And so that's been a very very core focus and we we've been uh again you know kind of strategically working with a lot of global institutions and organizations to make sure that we can we can uh uh unlock that trap collateral and utilize these high quality collateral assets to uh to mobilize within the ecosystem. Uh of course there's cash components of that as well. Most of all of these different collateral flows have have some sort of cash element to them too. Um and but we we see additional use cases with with tokenized cash.

And so I think most people would akin a lot of the success of uh of of crypto, a lot of the growth of crypto over the past 18 months to uh really stable coins finding product market fit um over the past two years. I I think I was on a panel um uh in in New York back in January and the question was asked you know why why have we seen this this institutional wave of adoption and I think most everybody's answer on the entire panel was well one we have regulatory clarity in a way which is which helps a lot too I think the broader market realizes that you know stable coins are kind of a no-brainer right um you know they uh the the again the very inefficient systems that we have across uh across the um the world through through payment cycles and markets etc. um can can really be optimized by by ways of tokenized cash. And so we're working uh with various providers to do things like you know B2B payments crossber uh payroll uh treasury management use cases you being able to go in and out of yield bearing assets into into dollar based tokenized assets uh for for large organizations or or even smaller organizations that want to optimize their uh their internal balance sheets and and efficiencies. Um and and then down into even retail use cases for you maybe your retail user that doesn't necessarily want to spend on a public chain would rather spend you know swipe a card backed by stable coins but actually has some privacy behind it.

And so we have this the whole spectrum of of of payments kind of focused with with the tokenized cash element too. Uh and then the last bit of the ecosystem that I'll that I'll speak towards and maybe kind of uh uh take a step back and open up for and speak to where opportunities for developers might be is within all of these. So we've talked about a lot about you know kind of general collateral capital markets type use cases you know uh high quality liquid assets um uh that that can help enable these flows. the payment side of things um both both businessto business retail payments um that sort there's there's been a very very cool ecosystem of native DeFi that's popped up within Canton um really really kind of under its its own accord um and I think we've seen a lot of very um impressive and and uh motivated you know entrepreneurs come in and and develop things like you know dexes privacy or or borrow lend and with privacy but also with you know the ability to incorporate some institutional assets into those lending protocols. Um you know we have I've seen recently in the past like week or two um you know per stack is live onchain and we have we have prediction markets within canton as well um and so a very very robust um vault vault curators very robust defi uh ecosystem has has sprung up under our feet um which is which has been very fun to watch for you know kind of an organization at digital asset who had been so institutionally focused um in in kind of the trad world for the past 10 years and so uh the way that We like to work with with a lot of these providers as well is to to see okay who can we uh uh work with to get exposure to um you know kind of institutional grade assets or institutional grade use cases and provide a lot of these very interesting and compelling services that um that that you know crypto has created uh into into an ecosystem that has asset base like that that has kind of a network that that Canton has.

And so we're really trying to merge both sides of of kind of the the the the DeFi crypto native world with with Tradfi as we meet in the middle here. Um and and we think that you know it's it's even it's pretty telling right now that we are one of the core areas um within the industry that is that is providing that that convergence. So I think that's kind of state of the ecosystem. Um broad categories on where we see opportunity. I I think that there is a there's some thematic categories that I think uh people can build towards and opportunities for builders uh within the ecosystem both if you're starting your own organization or you know kind of going through um v various accelerator programs.

I think the enablement of the convergence of of these sorts of uh of these sorts of types of companies, right? So the ability for institutions to be able to um have reliable data streams and data access to various DeFi components. Um the ability for the infrastructure layer to support uh what um the the the marriage of of these two of these two types of of organizations, right? whether that's through um you know shared node infrastructure or um uh uh you know the uh uh common validation right or decentralized validation across nodes on canton things like that just that you know kind of capitalizing on providing infrastructure services data at that wedge um that appeal to both institutional and in a crypton native audience I think is is something that's that's interesting and an area to focus on um I think there's a whole wealth of opportunity to provide payment services again um kind of very similar to what's been done in in in other more public ecosystems, blockchain ecosystems, but on Canton with privacy uh is something that I think is also ripe for for development. Um, I think from uh from kind of a an approach standpoint, I think there's very interesting opportunities for builders to to work with large institutions, large organizations who have very interested and compelling digital asset teams um to to help co-develop.

Um you know those are those are certain uh things that you know we see a lot of Q&amp;A come through from large institutions on you know how can we work with with native builders um to best understand how to optimize you know our our systems and programs and and and you know increase our education uh around um you know uh whether it's smart contract language or bits of infrastructure or or whatever else uh to to go and execute the the different initiatives and and programs they have internally. Uh those are just a few. I I think there's there's a much broader list here of where opportunity lies. Uh but those are top of mind, of course, given where we sit. Uh and and some of the things that we've seen come across our plate.

Um with that, I could probably take a pause and see if there's any questions. I I see a one pop up on Q&amp;A here. So, what is your advice for foreign founders that want to build a startup on Canton in the States? So would the would the oh I guess I need to click answer here. Um would the startup be based in the states or would you just be soliciting to end customers in the states?

Um I I I'm not sure if you can provide direct feedback in the chat stream here but I'm happy to to kind of touch on both. So I mean from from basing the startup in the states I I think that that you know you'd have to kind of speak to a lawyer. I'm wearing a hoodie at a desk. I'm not wearing a tie. So, there's probably somebody that can better answer that question as to how to like actually structure it.

Um, in terms of providing a startup and soliciting to to organizations in the states, I think one of the things that we're happy to do depending on whatever the startup is. Um, is we're happy to provide opinions on again where we see market opportunity with our existing ecosystem partners and participants. uh provide you know kind of a a POV as to how we can connect whatever service or or application it is that you're looking to to build as a founder um into those uh into those those those relationships and those those channels uh and and helps uh engage in joint go to market together um you know when when the time is right um based off of whatever you're building and so a lot of ways I can probably tackle that question um but uh but in in principle I think the core of it is, you know, we're we're happy to help. Um, I think that there is a there's an opportunity for for off for for non- US founders to provide services. We we see that happen ac all the time across the ecosystem.

It just kind of depends on what service you're providing, who your target customer is, um, and and what the engagement model is between you as a founder and and your end customer. Uh, I think that was the only question that I've seen in the chat. I'm not sure if there's anything else that uh that that is come up elsewhere or I'm not sure if the ENCO team has filled any directly. U maybe maybe I'm not looking at the right uh the right channel here, but um happy to take any other questions. Okay.

I don't see any kind of third. Dwight Shrew, do you have uh do you have anything on your end? Um no, I think actually just one more uh came on the chat just now. So why minting plan is setting for 10 years? Would that timeline change due to all the situation happened?

No. So the the minting plan for the token is is set. Um now I'll say that Canton is decently governed, right? Um you know we have uh we have a tokconomics committee that votes on on various um you know elements of uh of of of the network. Um, I to be quite honest, I would have to go in and read the bylaws to see if if the minting schedule would ever be ch or could ever be changed.

I I don't nobody's ever brought that up before in the past. I don't believe that it's of anybody's interest to. I think we we all understand the tokens emissions um, you know, are are kind of set in a way that I think everybody agrees are are are pretty um, uh, pretty appropriate. And so from a governance standpoint, um, it surely wouldn't be at our soul discretion to change them. Um but the the 10-year minting curve and you know having three different set token uh allocation tranches between the SV tokens, the app reward tokens and the validator tokens um is is something that um that that at this point I said and you know everybody is is kind of building around today and I'm not sure if I could even speculate on whatever change that but I in my personal opinion me not speaking as a representative digital asset I I ever foresee that changing.

Um I think we have another question in the chat as well. Uh do you see solutions on canon for commercial banking uh in high demand? Happy to speak further after this call. Yeah, completely. Um I think so.

So commercial banking uh I mean again if we talked about v various elements of banking both you know kind of optimizing for the deposit base um within bankings the lending activities uh of banks to their customers u cash management kind of standard banking activities I think all of those across the board um have uh have have relevant footholds within our network um with use cases that we see popping up within participants that are asking for different um for different uh services and offerings and and partners like this. And so, yeah, absolutely. I think um I think there's certainly a demand. And if you look at the longtail opportunity of of how you're seeing some of the banks approach um you know, various DeFi concepts too and weaving those into um into what they're they're doing as as as organizations. Um I think you could find some really cool interesting categories, right?

So, I know this isn't necessarily on the commercial banking side, but there could be some elements of like cash management, but like you saw JP Morgan, I think, uh, you know, launched a vault um, just this past couple weeks in the past two weeks or so. Um, you know, those those sorts of kind of cash management, yield bearing mechanisms that can be applied to the way the the commercial banks interact with um, with with their customers, with their clients. Um, you there's a lot of different opportunities for them to to provide differentiated services and very interesting angles of support. All right. Uh, from Keith, which financial institutions are seeing the most value from Canton today?

Um, there there's a couple different ways to approach that. I could go use case uh, but I could also say I think it's the ones that have have really committed to to to to tinkering with the service, right? um as a financial institution uh there is as you can imagine for most of these large organizations uh there there's a lot of decision-m that needs to go um go into deciding whether or not to to participate uh and you know there's this whole legacy kind of wave of of of of crypto adoption where you know if you kind of issue a PR press release and and maybe go through a couple pilots um you know that was that was sufficient in the past but over the past you know two or three years we're now seeing, you know, organizations actually like really dig in and and take very cool, interesting products to market. And and so from from an approach standpoint, the ones that are seeing the most value are the ones that are um that that are that are most adept to um to to adopting technology that have, you know, business buyin as well as, you know, the kind of tech and innovation buyin within their organizations. Um, as far as which types of organizations those are, uh, I think you're seeing a lot of, um, a lot of interest from from various exchanges, um, to to, you know, optimize the the assets that they can that they can trade and, um, and offer their clients.

Um, so, you know, there's a lot of talk around tokenized equities and and how those um, can can play into what sort of assets are offered to to client bases. um underneath the hood, the the management of collateral is is a very very uh compelling value prop to to a lot of organizations and and and clients of certain exchanges. Um the banks of course uh I think most people are tracking um you know what the largest banks are doing with their with their tokenized cash strategies, their their tokenized deposit strategies, stable coin strategies. Um at this point I think every financial institution has some sort of of cash strategy. Um and so so those are definitely very prevalent.

Um yeah. Yeah. Those are all right. Um I think that was it on the ones that have come through the chat. I'm happy to uh to answer any as well offline.

I'll uh I'll go ahead and put I maybe at risk to myself. I'll put my Telegram handle in here if anybody um has any questions. Feel free to hit me up on Telegram at any point. Um, you know, we have uh we have a very capable team at digital asset that's happy to help uh with with anything that you guys may be looking to to do on network. Uh, okay.

Do you think if canon network is going to be successful in the future? The question is, do you think if Canton network is going to be successful in the future, it will or the goal of it is to replace your traditional banking services? Uh so Canton network by us is Canton as as an L1 and you know again speaking of on behalf of digital asset and then our role within Canton but I think just given my my interactions with the rest of the Canton ecosystem um you know it's an L1 it's it's it's a piece of infrastructure we we as digital asset do not have intentions of replacing traditional banking services. Um I I feel pretty confident in saying the network itself doesn't either. Uh I think that there are interesting organizations um that are developing on the network um that are providing some very cool services you know neo bankanking type services are are there's some really cool neo banks that have popped up um on on canon and they're they're doing very very interesting things from payments to yield to the deposits and savings to collecting payroll you know um and so will that replace it no uh I think there's also very well traditional banking traditional banks that are that are doing very very interesting things on network um through their own services through lending through uh through through providing access to to crypto assets and things like that.

And so I think both um are are really uh are working um you know to to kind of tackle this this the the own strategies within within crypto um and in their own way. Uh now we as a network and and we or as as digital asset and then Canton as a network I don't believe have any intentions of of uh purposely replacing that. We we hope to support both sides and and whatever it is they look to do, you know, given the the infrastructure that we have um you know within uh within our own control. All right. Thank you for the question.

Do you have anything else to add? Um, Jacob, I I don't think so. I mean I I think that um well yeah the I'll tie off by saying that you know we one of the things that that we're keenly focused on as digital asset and and and helping to to grow the ecosystem um is enabling you know the the next wave of not only just Canton itself but but the industry right um we think we again we have some very unique properties that we can provide as as a company and that Canton can provide as as an L1 um but you know the the the coolest things that pop up um are within any sort of technological shift are always the ones that are developed at the ground level. Um and by people kickstarting their their entrepreneurship journey or leaving legacy jobs to to go and start something off. So um we place a high priority on uh on on all the new and interesting ideas and and very happy to see what uh what comes out of this program.

Um again, yeah, I put my telegram in here. very happy to be accessible and help uh help provide as much direction as we possibly can. Um you know this is uh having things like this happen and programs like this take place is something that you know three four five years ago when when we were in in the slog of of institutional crypto winter just wasn't wasn't even on the radar. And now to be able to uh to work with organizations across the globe to to deploy on canon and provide you know meaningful services that um that can help accelerate this ecosystem is is is fantastic. So um very much appreciate the opportunity um very bullish on everything you guys are doing uh within uh within this cohort and and excited to see what comes out of it.

Very good. Lovely. Well, uh, thank you very much, Jacob, for uh, your side, for your time and, uh, really valuable overview of the, uh, content, uh, ecosystem as well. Now, just a key reminders, um, as we're heading to the final stretch, right? So, the final submission closes on Monday, the 13th of July at midnight.

Okay? Uh, this means that if it's midnight anywhere in the world, submission will um, still be open. Um, look at your time zone and make sure that you don't miss this submission deadline. Please, please, please. Uh, there are no extensions.

Uh, so get in there before the buzz up. Okay. Uh, your project must be deployed on the content devet as well uh, in order to be charged. uh local sandbox or a local net is not enough and you will need a real demo contract uh running live on DevNet if it only runs on local host. It is not finished yet.

So make sure it's on DevNet, please. If you guys are using C port, it is great for prototyping fast, but don't stop there. You must actually deploy to the DevNet validator and prove your contracts run on Ledger. Uh C port mockup on its own won't count as a deploy submission. If you need help with deploying um just rewatch the content tech deep dive in the finished event section of the program page.

It it walks through uh basically the full build plus devet uh deploy. uh in today's session ruland that you uh in a little bit. So if you're stuck on anything like out uh dar upload valid uh validator config uh then drop it in the content channel uh mentors and the team are there to unblock you. So ask early, don't sit on the problem. And just to remind you guys again, so final submission Monday the 13th.

Then there will be a period of judging. We'll announce some finalists depend on how good or how uh many many subscription uh submissions will get. This number will vary. Okay. Finalists will be announced and have time to prepare a presentation as well.

Then we'll have a finale uh which will be a demo day uh where uh will happen on Tuesday the 28th of July. But that date may change depending on the judging timeline as well. So keep an eye on the discord for updates. And I think that's all from me. So very nice.

Thank you very much um uh Jacob as well. So for you everyone that participated on on this event today uh now that you've put in all the work um now it's time for you to get it live on the devet and finish it strong. Okay keep an eye on the discord and the platform pages as well. Uh so yeah thanks Jacob for the workshop and good luck with your builds Thanks again guys.


####################################################################################################
####################################################################################################


Meeting Técnico: Canton Tech Deep Dive
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1B_ybMiDcKY
================================================================================

Thanks everyone for joining. I think we can start now. Welcome to build on Canton Hackathon. For you that don't know, we launched on Monday and today is the first deeper technical session for builders. Just a quick reminder, your next key date is the project creation which needs to be done by Sunday 21st of June.

Okay? After that, we have the Canton ecosystem overview on Monday at 2:00 p.m. So, join us again for that. And please keep checking the Discord and the platform page for updates and drop the question there. The Canton or ask for me code team will be around that to help.

Okay? So, today as a speaker we have Jatin who is the developer relations manager at the Canton Foundation. And yeah, he will be going a little bit deeper into the Canton stock, the architecture, and the practical pieces that should help with the project building as well. So, without further ado, I will pass over to Jatin and yeah, here we go. Sounds good.

Sounds good. Hey everybody, so good to be in the workshop and and I know that we have just getting started to build and only like a few days back only we had our first launch event. But, this is just me giving you a quick TLDR overview of the entire like Canton network, Daml, how it looks and likes, a workshop on how can you use C-Port which will be the tool that I would generally want all of you to use to deploy, to write your first Daml smart contract, deploy on the validator that you would want to be. But, yeah, let's let's get started, I guess. I'm just going to share my screen and Dwight, let me know once my screen is sharing successfully.

Can you see my screen? Yes, we can see your screen. That's all good. Okay, that's that's a good news then. So, okay, let's see.

I think everything works. Good to know. So, hey everybody. I am going to be first using the slides to explain you some of the most foundational and basic concepts out there about Canton network or DLT itself. And after that, we can move on to actually write and after that, how to deploy using Cport.

So, let's move ahead. So, as you would see, Canton network itself is a distinctionally very different blockchain than you would compare to any other else like So, for us, the whole architecture looks very very very different when you compare to somebody else out there in the blockchain space. So, instead of a single global ledger, what we have is a global synchronizer that connects every single validator in the ecosystem. Every validator runs its own version of a subnetwork like Canton Canton network. You could say a sub Canton network in it.

They're all isolated, privacy first, you know, ecosystems within the Canton network ecosystem. That's why we say we are Canton networks is a network of networks. So, there are so many validators running a version of the network, a slice of the overall ledger, but at the same time to provide them the atomicity across themselves, we have a global synchronizer. The global synchronizer sees absolutely nothing. It gets encrypted, fully cryptographically encrypted messages.

All it does is sequencing, ordering, and batching, and overall BFT-based mechanism to make sure that there is atomicity natively across the validators. So, for example, if someday bank A wants to work work with bank B, who's all the way at Korea or Japan, and bank A is in US, they can work easily with each other on Canton Network without any issue, thanks to the global synchronizer. So, the architecture is very different than what you would look if you compare to other blockchains out there. We have a distinct comparison with them, where we have a validator-based ecosystem, where only the parties in each single smart contract sees exactly your data, apart from the parties not in your smart contract does not see your data. It's a part of our sub-transaction privacy smart contract mechanism, where Canton Network is the only blockchain to provide native privacy on the smart contract level, compared to the other blockchains out there.

Now, let's talk about DAML. So, we talked about a general overview of the Canton Network, and I feel that would be good. So, DAML is very essential different if you compare it with anything else. It has multiple components. It is It does not feel or look like your classic Solidity or Rust, where you write like loops and functions and classes and assets.

It is very different. It is a very access-based smart contract language. In DAML, you will see something called as template. Template is like this. It's only a small part of the overall network.

Template is just like a declared function as you would in a Solidity contract. Then you have multiple accesses. So, if you want somebody to only see your data or see the changes in your smart contract state, but do not alter it or write it or change it, you put them as observers. Then you have a signatory. Signatory is the one who is the true owner who signs everything.

Every single transaction has to be signed by the signatory in any case scenario. Then on Canton Network, what we have is party. So, instead of addresses on Ethereum like ecosystem, we have parties. So, for when you get a new wallet on Canton Network, you get a party ID, not an address. Party is your identification on the ledger.

Then we have choice. Choice is like defining an action, an executable function in your smart contract. For example, you defined a token, let's say USDC, but what is the function of USDC? Function is to go from one person to another person. The transfer of the coin is the function.

You would define it under a choice. So, this is a basic infrastructure like overview in terms of like what are the major concepts in the smart contract. But let me show you a real breakdown. So, before we go to write something actual, I'll show you what it means to have a smart contract in the first place. So, first, yeah, you would have like an overview model declaration, like module token where it's like when you declare a module in the first place.

Then you have an example of a controller, right? Um since I cannot draw in this screen for some random reason, I'm just going to show you like this. So, this here is an entire template. Template is just definition of something, right? A template starts with defining a new token.

So, template of a token with owner is a party. So, the owner of a template, sorry, our owner of a token has to be a person, right? So, if I created Jatin USDC or Jatin USDC Jatin as a new token, then I am the owner who is a party. So, whenever you define an individual in your smart contract, it is go it does go by party. Where here is you define the access, how much access does this person in has.

If the person is owner, we want to give them all the access in the world. So, where signatory is the owner. So, as we have seen before, signatory is the one who has authority to do everything. So, owner is a signatory, right? It tracks.

Then, we made a token of USDC Jatin. But, I want the token to have an have a function from from like transferring one person to another to another. That's what a token does. So, we declare a choice called as transfer. Then, you show the contract ID.

Contract ID is just name of your template, okay? With you declare a new owner. So, if I am sending to somebody else, who is that person? So, you are declaring that person inside transfer because transfer is the one which will enable to introduce this new party. So, inside the choice, you have a new person which is getting introduced as the new owner who is getting my token.

For example, Jatin is sending USDC Jatin to Dwight. So, Dwight is the new owner who has a party. That's how we declare it. Controller is the owner. Now, a controller inside a choice is is simply an access what other person exercise.

So, whoever you want this choice to be used by, that person is the controller. So, if somebody else wants to request money from me, they're exercising this choice, this transfer request, they're requesting the transfer themselves. So, they are the controller of the choice, and they just basically becomes a new owner when I transfer the token to them, they become the owner. So, when you say do, do means you are basically just creating a new contract and archiving the old one. That means that this whole thing is now going to be done at all complete.

Now, you said create this with owner equal to new owner. So, do create this with owner equal to new owner means now, do this whole thing, convert the new owner into an owner, and start it all. So, now the new owner holds the token, so it becomes the owner. That means now it has the signatory access to give to somebody else. So, this is how a breakdown of a normal DAML template looks like.

Now, let just say we look at a real example of a multi-party workflow. You would ask me, "How do we define a template in the huge smart contract or DAML contract about specifically transfer or trade of a certain asset?" Okay? Let just say we are trading ETH, okay? Or CC, for example. So, we are trading CC among ourselves.

How do we define that trade in a template? So, the template will start by, of course, defining all the people involved. Seller is a party because it's an it's an individual. Buyer is a party. Name of the assets.

Price of the asset because of course CC has a price. So, if you're selling something, it has to have a value. So, you say buyer, seller, buyer, asset, and the price of the asset. So, seller is me, buyer is you. Like in this example, just say Dwight is the buyer who has a party.

Asset will be CC. Price will be let's just say 0.16 or something. For an example. Now, we declared all the parameters of what this template would look like. Where signatory is the seller, and observer is the buyer.

Now, if I'm selling something, I have to be agreeing with you that hey, I agree with the price. So, I'm going to sell you this. So, I'm going to sign off to the trade. So, I'm the signatory as the seller. Now, this whole thing has to be seen by Dwight, who is the other who is the other person who's requesting as the buyer of CC.

So, they are an observer. As we have learned, observer is the one who can see, but cannot do change. So, buyer is the observer who can see transaction being happened. I am the one who has to sign the transaction, and then the whole thing continues. Now, it is just in theory.

We have to make it real. So, we define a new choice. Choice is to accept. So, if even if I'm say I I am just transferring something to you, you have to accept. Yeah, I'm just sorry about that.

But, you have to accept the whole asset from me. So, the choice here would be to accept the new asset. Contract ID is trade. Okay. It would be trade proposal instead of trade here.

So, controller is the buyer, right? So, this particular choice is controlled by the buyer. So, Dwight has to accept this choice that they are the one who are accepting. So, they are the one who are like from controlling the choice, right? Exercising the choice.

So, controller is the buyer and then again, do create trade with seller buyer asset price. Now, we are saying this is all done. Now, it just create a new trade with seller buyer asset and price. Simple as that. And this means that seller creates a proposal, buyer sees the proposal, decides to accept it or not, okay?

Once they accept it, trade contract is created, both parties are done, and the trade is done. Hence, this is how we move forward. So, this is how you learn Daml's privacy model in the first place. Each party sees the actions that they have a taken. So, no if, for example, it is me and Dwight who are defined as the two parties here, but if there is somebody else, let us say Anthony, who is not defined as a party in the smart contract, Anthony is neither an observer like like a buyer or not even an owner like me, who is a seller, then Anthony has no access to whatever we do.

Our trade, our smart contract, nothing. So, this is called as the privacy at core at Canton gives you using Daml, and this is known as proof of stakeholders. So, that is the whole point where party sees exactly what they're allowed to see on Canton network. Okay? Now, so, signatory, observer, and dual lens.

Let us remove dual lens. We have signatory and observer. Observer sees the contract, but cannot do anything. Signatory has full visibility and has to sign it. So, this is how the whole Canton network like privacy model works.

Um I guess now we have learned enough to actually write something. So, so far and my screen is not sharing currently. So far we have just seen on how do we get started, what is the architecture looks like, global synchronizer, multiple validators, okay? After that we have seen how Daml is different. We have seen what Daml looks like.

What is an observer, signatory, signatory controller, choice template. We have seen a real example of a real template of a trade. And then we have seen the whole point of this, which is providing privacy. So, this is the first part of the workshop where you have already seen and learned everything about like Daml, its concept, its terminologies in theory, right? So, now we move ahead to the next part, which is actually writing a new concept.

So, for that uh generally for us on Canton network, things are a little different. You are used to deploying something on an RPC, but for Canton network you deploy by using a validator. So, now for all of you, you don't need to set up a validator, okay? Because it's at something of a big hackathon and so for that we have created a totally new um tool, which I'm going to share with you the link of in the chat is devnet.c4.io. So, we would require in this hackathon for all of you to deploy on devnet.

So, if you go to this link, I'm going to show you what you find. So, let us say I'm going to share my screen again. So, I'm just going to go here at Seaboard. So, here is what you would see as your home screen. I think you can see my screen.

So, this is your home screen how it will look like. You can log in using Loop. You don't need an invite code to use the Loop wallet when you are exactly on this website. It automatically gets created by using a Loop wallet, okay? Now, when you come on this screen Okay, here.

So, now when you come on this screen, you can go up here all the way. You click here. You initially see personal when you come in. But, when you click here there is a new organization called as Encode Hackathon. So, this is the organization that the foundation has created on this devnet.seaboard.io for all the builders here to be deployed on a devnet validator, which is already pre-configured, okay?

Now, if you want to deploy this on mainnet and testnet and make it a real project, you have to deploy it on on like maybe Encode's validator, for example. So, Encode runs a validator for mainnet, right? So, if you want to then move ahead and then now you are ready to deploy on the mainnet, then you can deploy on the mainnet validator for Encode, you know? And it is simple to just like configure the whole thing. So, for currently in this workshop, I'm normally going to show you on devnet because devnet is minimum bare bare minimum you could say to submit a project.

At least you should have something like on devnet. So, when you come here there is Encode Hackathon. You can't see it because I need to add all of you to this particular organization in the first place, okay? So, for that, you just need to give me this particular party ID here on your all the way top right. Just copy and send it on Discord maybe where I can support you or just add you into this uh organization.

But, what is the advantage of adding into this organization, you would ask. So, I would say it's it's generally pretty simple. Look it. The whole point would be to allow you to deploy on DevNet without any hassle. Okay?

Now, we will write our first smart contract in DAML for this workshop and see how to build and deploy using Sea Port. So, for us, either we directly upload a DAR to a validator. So, if you already have a project made up in your local and compiled using DPM, you can just upload your DAR. If you have the whole thing into your GitHub, you can connect your GitHub. Or for us, we are just going to click on a new blank contract.

We will give give it a name, so it will be easier for us to make it a name. Let us say So, we are going to write a simple token smart contract. So, when you click on simple token, it creates a new project. It feels very like Remix IDE. Okay?

I'm also available on Discord if you need any clarification on any of this project. So, I am on Discord. You can just tag me, and I think, yeah, I would be there to help you out. So, let's get started. Now, we have a DAML.yaml file.

It is basically a file that declares all the basic necessities. You need to have this to actually deploy something. Then, we have a new blank file. So, we are just going to rename it into simple token.daml. So, now, it as you can see, the logo is changed.

Now, it becomes a DAML file. So, this is our terminal here. We will just drag it a little bit down. And we will start writing our first smart contract in DAML. Okay?

let's get started. So, when you write your first smart contract in DAML, you need to make sure that you define by declaring a module. So, when you So, when you start your smart contract, you start by declaring the module name with I mean, module must be declared and then it must match the file name. Okay? So, for example, if the name of the module here is So, the name of the file is simple token.

We have to make sure the name of the module is simple token as well. Okay? Simple token where? So, this is the the definition of a module declaration. So, you have to declare the module in the first place.

Without declaring the module, it won't be good. I mean, in general, and it won't work. You will get 100 different types of error. So, I can see there are people in the chat who wants to collaborate. Uh it would be good.

So, uh yeah, Kevin Dwight can send you the Discord link in the chat. And uh maybe Ben, you can use the Discord to collaborate with people. And uh yeah, that would be good a good way to go. So, moving on, now we we start by declaring the name of the module, which has to be again, I cannot stress this enough, should be same as the DAML file here. So, we declare the module like this.

Then we import the library uh which makes the whole thing run is known as DAML script. So, now when you import uh not that, so now you start by mak- making a module name and importing a module as Daml script. Okay, basically your Daml script library makes this whole thing run in the first place. So now everything is done to set up the smart contract. Now we start the work.

Okay, so now to even before to define a new token or what the token looks like, you know, we need to create a new data type. A data type is basically a class that shows what a token should look like, you know. It's It's like a a field that just have like all the core parameters of a token. So I am just pasting it here. It's pretty simple and straightforward.

I already have it defined internally that I can just give you. I'm dropping the same thing in chat. This is pretty straightforward so it should not help like be a major issue here, but I'm just going to data token info and equal to token with symbol, for example, Canton token or CC. Right? Quantity would be the decimal or you could say price would be the decimal like how many units this contract represent.

So I would say quantity would be, for example, we need to create a new contract a new token for this hackathon. I'm going to say USDC. End quote. Okay, how many tokens do we want to make? So let us just say we want And I This is how you write comments in Daml, by the way.

So I'm just writing comments. It is not a part of the code. So we want to make 10,000 tokens maybe. So 10,000 tokens would be good. We can even write some other parameters like value or you could say price would be decimal, be what would be the price for this.

Example, 0.1 4. USD, okay? It's an example. But what we are essentially doing here is we are basically defining a new data type that exactly shows what the token looks like, what is the parameter of a token, and like a general definition of what are we going to be using as the reference token in the smart contract. So now we move ahead.

We declared the first data type of a token, and now now we know that the new data type is declared. Now for the whole thing, we just need to move ahead, and we now we need to declare how it will look like as a template. So template is basically just the functions. So now we have a token. Great.

We have a token, and what the token looks like is also done. But I want to keep it simple, and let's start not waste time, and let's start. So now we declare a template. A template in this particular sense and scenario, it is basically just a functionality or a function, more closer to that, that we declare, okay? So in our case, basically, a template is basically a function in a bigger smart contract.

So many multiple templates together creates a new like smart contract in the first place. So we'll move ahead, and Okay. So we are going to move ahead and declare more templates here, which defines the whole thing. So So the template for this particular token we have to start by simply just declaring the token, you know, which is like okay, so you have declared a new class of token. But what the token would look like?

Okay, so there is a token, but who is it for? Or who is is it going to go to? For example, if there is a token and you're going to transfer the token to somebody else, but then who is the owner of the token, right? Like how would you define this whole workflow? Like token goes from one person to the other person, but how would you define that?

There should be a way to define that whole mechanics into your DAML smart contract. So we start by a new template called as let us say simple token itself. So this particular template in your DAML file, what it is doing is it is just starting, it is kicking off the DAML smart contract by declaring the most bare minimum information, okay? The the width here in a template declares the contract's parameters, you know, the fields of a contract. So now when we say that it is a simple token, So we say template simple token with it means that now we have a template named simple token with this many parameters.

So what would be the parameters of a token, right? So when we say we have a token, we have somebody who issued a token, then we have somebody who is the owner of the token, right? Or maybe let us say the token needs a symbol, for example, USDC and code needs a symbol, let us say USTC EN, okay? So this is a symbol plus quantity plus val every single thing that we defined in the data type, right? So we need to have a token issuer, a token owner.

So, for example, the token is issued by Encode to Jatin, who is the owner of this token as well, or Anthony, who is the owner of this token. And then, that particular token needs all its information, like the name of the token, the symbol of the token, and the quantity of how many tokens needs to be created or minted, or what is the price of a token, okay? So, let's do that. We create a new parameter of somebody who issues the token, issuer, and that person has to be an individual on the ledger. So, as we have learned, it has to be someone who issues the token, USDCEN example, Encode Club.

So, now the Encode Club issued a new token, let's just say USDCEN, to somebody else. For example, now this token is given to Anthony as the owner, who can decide the fate of this token. Now, Anthony is a person on the ledger, like an individual. So, owner of this token, USDCEN, issued by Encode Club, okay? So, now the issuer and owner.

And now, instead of declaring all these three into one one one and complicate this, why not we just say here. So, token info is basically, or you could say it should be it will be the same, so let's just I'm going to write info. So, the information of a token is everything which is already declared in the class. So, now you see what we are doing, right? Instead of declaring this whole thing every single time when you do something with the token, we will just reference information back to the data class.

So, instead of creating the same thing over and over and over again, we just created a class instead and which we can reference again and again. Right? And now all info of USDC e n based on above data class we made. So, then this is how you start a new template where we are declaring the issuer, the owner, and we are instead of declaring every single parameter again and again and again, we are just referencing the data class as this will be then the information in the parameter. So, the parameter has to be there and that includes every single piece of data class that we have declared.

Symbol, name, quantity, value, all that. Now comes the next part. We have declared the template. We have declared the parameters of the template, like who can do what, but I'm said like who is there in the first place, but we now have to declare who can do what, okay? It is good in theory, but now we have to do some action.

So, in action, we have to use the powers of the terms that we have learned. Signatory, observer, controller, and all that. So, now we have to make sure that uh we define the right access to the right person. If a person gets less access, they can't do the right thing that necessity. If somebody gets more access, they can do more harm.

So, we have to make sure that we define the right access of the whole thing, okay? So, now we have to go back to the definition of the overall token. The overall token is issued by N code. So, N code has to sign off to the overall token because they have to sign off that hey, we have issued the token. All good from our side.

But, the owner is also somebody who has the power to say I'm giving it to somebody else. I'm good with giving it to somebody else. So, they also have to sign off whenever they are giving token to somebody else. So, as you would see this time it is a rare thing because now both the parties has to be the owner of the same I mean the whole token and signs off. So, what we declare is we know the term for it.

It's signatory. So, now when we say signatory, both issuer and owner are now the the signatory. That means they have to sign off to the whole thing. When we say that we need your permission, your authorization to do anything. But, at the same time an issuer has to see where the owner is sending, okay?

Here's the thing. So, for example, in our smart contract um N code club gave the tokens to Anthony, you know, owner example So, Anthony has the power to give token to somebody else, but the issuer has to see, right? Where my tokens are going, who the token is being given to. So, issuer has to see the change in the overall state of the smart contract whenever a new choice is exercised. So, when there is a choice they transfer the token from Anthony to Dwight, then N code club as the issuer has to know that there is a change in the overall state, right?

But this is optional. Okay, this is totally optional. What we can do is we can like grant the access. Now, even if you don't add this, it won't do a harm, but again, we can be like observer is the issuer, okay? So, we can have the issuer as observer, too, at some point or if there is a new entity, for example, let just say encode hired a new regulator for them to oversee the tokens operation.

So, now this new regulator is the observer. That means the regulator will be quiet and do not does anything like won't do anything. Just see things moving in in front to note everything down. And that is the classic definition of an observer, right? So, that's how we would add a regulator into the whole equation in the first place, okay?

Now, there is one thing in DAML which you should know, which is known as ensure. Ensure is like a condition. So, in in Solidity or Rust, you are like, I I can add a condition which has to be met to be able to move further in my application. So, if the condition is not met, a person just aborts. How do we do that in DAML?

We do that by using ensure. So, ensure um we have to ensure that overall let just say, I cannot I should not send you zero amount of token, right? That should not be the case. So, let just say we have to ensure that a person or the owner is sending a new person at least minimum one token. How do you ensure that condition?

So, we say ensure So, now we say info dot We are have referencing a particular The info is basically this whole data type. Dot means now you have to specifically define what? So, we say So, we have to define quantity info dot quantity. Right? So, we have to say that info dot quantity, that means the quantity part of the overall data type of the encode token should be more than 0.00.

I mean, you can just write 0.0, but again cool, you know, 0.00 looks cool like there should be minimum but yeah. So, that is how you you will you will just see the whole thing as in sure that this is going to be more than 0.00 in at minimum, okay? That is how we typically look at defining a minimum condition that has to be made. Now, a template is defined. That is great.

A template is just there. But, what does this template do? You're defining a particular token token from a data type which is declared, but what does this token do? Like will it do any functionality at all? Yeah, it does.

It's actually going to transfer from one person to another person, okay? And that is what we are going to do. Now, we are going to make it alive. That means you're going to add a functionality of transferring from one person, let us say the owner Anthony, to a new owner who is asking for the token, let us say Dwight, okay? So, now we add a new choice here.

Choice would be to transfer from one person to the another person. Let's just say choice name is transfer. Right? So, the name of the choice could be anything that you would say you I and code or I could say transfer USDC and but I'm just going to keeping it simple for the sake of the workshop and I'm just going to say choice transfer contract ID equal to the name of the We're just going to copy-paste the name of the template. So, now this is how you would declare a choice in the first place, okay?

Now again, we write with because we need to make sure that it comes with the right parameters when you write a new functionality, it has to have a parameter, right? So, we say choice would be with new owner. So, now if Anthony who is the owner transfers some the the token to somebody else, that then they become the new owner of this, right? So, we declare the new owner here because this new owner only exist. So, now the question is why don't we do declare this new owner here?

I know you some of you might have that question, but the thing is new owner only exist if you transfers the token to somebody else. Without that choice, this new owner does not exist. That's why that has to be defined under the choice or it is ideal to have this under the choice, okay? Um new owner would be a party because again, for the obvious reasons, new owner has to be a party. My bad.

Yeah, my bad. It has to be a capital one. So, yeah, make sure that it is capital when you write party. I just noticed it. So, if it is not in blue, that's a problem.

Okay. So, the new owner has to be, let's just say like this. Okay, the new owner is a party on the ledger. That means it is a new person on the ledger. Now, we will say controller.

Again, based on what we have learned so far, we have to make sure that controller is the one who wants the money, right? Who wants you to transfer. So, who needs to exercise this choice is the controller. So, the controller is the one So, currently, in this particular use case, we have two parties right now, issuer and owner. Issuer is the encode club.

Owner is the is Anthony. Regulator won't do anything. Regulator is just an observer, so it becomes out of the window. Two people with the authority to do transfer, owner and the issuer. In this case, owner has to tell the issuer that I'm transferring the token and I have to transfer from one person to another person, from me to that particular person.

So, they have to exercise the chart transfer of the choice. Okay, so out of these two, as I say, the one opposite to the higher party becomes the controller. Okay? That is like a cheat code I would use. So, controller would be the owner.

So, owner is the the lower party compared to the both parties available, who needs to make sure that they're exercising the choice of transfer to somebody random out there. So, in this case, the controller becomes the owner. And lastly, do. Do create. So, now it comes to this.

Okay? Now, create this with new owner equal to owner. So, what it does is now this whole thing is done. So, do the whole smart contract convert this, create this, make it done. Create this.

Again, now it will restart the whole thing as new owner would be the owner, okay? Or I would say the better way based on what we see is now the owner is equal to new owner. That means and the new owner is now the owner. So, if I own all of my tokens is with Dwight, so now Dwight is the owner of the tokens, has to ask the permission and then just going to sign off. So, you see how this all works, right?

You just go around and around and around. The template goes back to the power to the person who holds the token. And that is how you define your first template, you define your first choice, you define the whole thing, okay? But let just say you want Okay, let us just let us do something more. Okay, let us just do And now here is the thing.

We have We have 15 minutes. So, I'm going to make it like add another um choice here. Would be fun to do that. I just think thought of it is burn. So, let us just say that um contract ID the same as simple token.

Copy paste it here. Okay. So, imagine Or you know what? It is just It does not require the It does not require the parameters. You just burn it.

So, we will just write it as choice as burn. I guess that would be good because it needs to go with all. So, when you when you write like a singleton uh choice that affects whole, affects everything, you can just say choice semicolon and the bracket. It's just like It affects the whole thing up, okay? So, now um when you are going to write like Okay, you have to understand that how would we write semicolon, okay?

So, here is semicolon under bracket choice burn. Compared to contract ID, okay? So, when you write contract ID or something, you have to make sure that that choice returns a value, okay? So, when your choice is returning a value in in Daml, you write the contract ID as simple token template or this is the token, this is the template or choice or whatever, but if your choice, when you exercise it, does not return any value at all, we say the bracket sign, okay? The choice burn bracket.

So, what we are doing is essentially now the controller becomes the owner for obvious reasons that we already know. So, controller is the owner. So, for example, owner decides to just burn some amount of token, okay? So, what we will do is they will just do burn. Do.

So, now do does the whole thing return absolutely nothing, you know? I mean, nothing is creating. It's It's like you're archiving the whole thing up. You're burning the whole thing up. So, nobody gets anything.

Nothing gets returned in the first place. So, when you say this, you are basically writing a new burn contract in the first place, okay? So, that is how you would define the whole thing. And I think we are pretty much done and we are at the end of the line. So, we defined a template with two choices of transfer and burn.

We learned how to define a choice which returns something aka it has an output. Then we've learned how to define a choice that has no output. Okay? So, that is how you would define the whole smart contract in the first place. So, this is how a general mindset looks like.

Honestly, it is very easy when compared to Solidity or Rust and all that structure, where you're writing most of your time in your head how would this look like on paper, but instead on Daml you write everything in your head and you compile it into a real code saying that this is how it would look like. This is the access control like language. This is more like a type language, you know, like Haskell, if you would. So, this is more relatable to that. We have wrote our first Daml contract.

We save it. The file is saved. All we need to do on CPort is to go up, build the project. So, now the project is getting built. There might be a few issues here.

So, the build is failed because of Okay, so there is no multi-package file yet, so you need to create a multi-package file because you have multiple parties involved. But, I can just quickly give you a peek at here. Let us go down. We go to intro data. It already has a multi-package file created.

See, so when we have multiple modules like this, I'm just going to show you how quickly it happens. You build the contract. Um okay, I guess there is some issue with the CPort, but uh I'm just going to ignore it. Currently, anyways, yeah. The whole point of us would be to actually start writing our your first Tamil smart contract.

After the workshop, I can send you a link to a dedicated video I have created for foundation on how to deploy and build on Cport, which basically teaches you how to do that. But, I guess that would be helpful for you to start deploying on Cport. When you click on deploy, you select the DAR file. So, when you build something, you already it becomes a DAR file that you need to upload on the validator. It appears here.

You select that. You go to the validator. You either select this validator, okay? Which is the one that we have configured for you on Devnet, so that at least all of you can deploy on Devnet in the first place. But, if you have access to the Encode hackathons or like Encode's validator, you can even go to settings and add your own validator.

You can just go here. You can go to personal. You can upload DAR. Or you can just go here. Wait a minute.

Save validator settings. New configuration. You can You can add the Encode validator here if you want to deploy on the Encode Devnet validator. In any case, I feel like deploying on validator should be an easy work. But, if you have any issues with that, just tag me, and I'm always there to help you out on Discord.

Okay? Um this is basically a walk-through of how you would write your first smart contract in Daml. And yep, that's that's basically the the the perfect flow of how you would do think and write in the first place. And for the Cport, uh the video will be here after the workshop. That would be everything that we had for the workshop.

Any doubt, um you can ask the Encode Club team. If not, you can just tag me in the Discord. I'm there um on the Discord as well. Thank you so much, right. Wow, lovely.

Thanks, uh Jatin. What a really useful session today. Uh so, hope uh that gave everyone a clear technical picture of the stack and how to build on it. Uh remember the next up we have the Canton ecosystem overview which is going to be on Monday the 23rd at 2:00 p.m. And don't forget to create a project, add your team add add your team, and share the progress by Sunday the 21st of June.

Okay, so this Sunday coming up. After that the mid-hackathon point uh checkpoint will be on Sunday the 28th of June as well. Uh so quick keep questions coming the Discord and on the platform page. In regards to the Discord one of the team uh will be in touch with you guys tomorrow sending over the Discord link. Okay, so thank you very much and I'll see you guys soon.